packages/gatsby-plugin-netlify-cms/README.md, before:

# gatsby-plugin-netlify-cms

**Gatsby v1 and Netlify CMS 1.x require [`gatsby-plugin-netlify-cms@^2.0.0`][1].**

**Gatsby v2 and Netlify CMS 2.x require [`gatsby-plugin-netlify-cms@^3.0.0`][2].**

**Gatsby v2 and Netlify CMS (netlify-cms-app) 2.9.x required `gatsby-plugin-netlify-cms@^4.0.0`, which is documented below.**

## Overview

Automatically generates an `admin/index.html` with a default Netlify CMS implementation.

Netlify CMS is a React single page app for editing git based content via API.
Its built for non-technical and technical editors alike, and its super easy to
install and configure. For more details, check out the [docs
site](https://netlifycms.org).

**Note:** `gatsby-plugin-netlify-cms@^4.0.0` changes the requirement for Netlify CMS to use a new library published `netlify-cms-app@^2.9.x` and is a **breaking change**.

## Install

```shell
npm install --save netlify-cms-app gatsby-plugin-netlify-cms
```

## How to use

Add the Netlify CMS plugin in your `gatsby-config.js`:

```javascript
plugins: [`gatsby-plugin-netlify-cms`]
```

Then add your Netlify CMS [configuration
file](https://www.netlifycms.org/docs/add-to-your-site/#configuration) in
`static/admin/config.yml`.

## Options

Netlify CMS can be configured via the plugin options below. You can learn
about how to pass options to plugins in the [Gatsby
docs](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/plugins/#how-to-use-gatsby-plugins).

### `modulePath`

(_optional_, type: `string | Array<string>`, default: `undefined`)

If you need to customize Netlify CMS, e.g. registering [custom
widgets](https://www.netlifycms.org/docs/custom-widgets/#registerwidget) or
styling the [preview
pane](https://www.netlifycms.org/docs/customization/#registerpreviewstyle),
you'll need to do so in a JavaScript module and provide Gatsby with the path to
your module via the `modulePath` option. Any styles imported by this module (or
by the modules that it imports, all the way down the chain) are automatically
applied to the editor preview pane by the plugin.

```javascript
plugins: [
  {
    resolve: `gatsby-plugin-netlify-cms`,
    options: {
      /**
       * One convention is to place your Netlify CMS customization code in a
       * `src/cms` directory.
       */
      modulePath: `${__dirname}/src/cms/cms.js`,
    },
  },
]
```

The js module might look like this:

```javascript
/**
 * The default export of `netlify-cms-app` is an object with all of the Netlify CMS
 * extension registration methods, such as `registerWidget` and
 * `registerPreviewTemplate`.
 */
import CMS from "netlify-cms-app"

/**
 * Any imported styles will automatically be applied to the editor preview
 * pane, there is no need to use `registerPreviewStyle` for imported styles.
 * All of the example imports below would result in styles being applied to the
 * preview pane.
 */
import "module-that-imports-styles.js"
import "styles.scss"
import "../other-styles.css"

/**
 * Let's say you've created widget and preview components for a custom image
 * gallery widget in separate files:
 */
import ImageGalleryWidget from "./image-gallery-widget.js"
import ImageGalleryPreview from "./image-gallery-preview.js"

/**
 * Register the imported widget:
 */
CMS.registerWidget(`image-gallery`, ImageGalleryWidget, ImageGalleryPreview)
```

### `manualInit`

(_optional_, type: `boolean`, default: `false`)

Set this to `true` If you need to [manually initialize](https://www.netlifycms.org/docs/beta-features/#manual-initialization) Netlify CMS. The plugin will take care of setting `window.CMS_MANUAL_INIT` to `true`:

```javascript
plugins: [
  {
    resolve: `gatsby-plugin-netlify-cms`,
    options: {
      manualInit: true,
    },
  },
]
```

The js module might look like this:

```javascript
import CMS from "netlify-cms-app"

/**
 * Optionally pass in a config object. This object will be merged into `config.yml` if it exists
 */

CMS.init({
  config: {
    backend: {
      name: "git-gateway",
    },
  },
})
```

### `enableIdentityWidget`

(_optional_, type: `boolean`, default: `true`)

`enableIdentityWidget` is `true` by default, allowing [Netlify
Identity](https://www.netlify.com/docs/identity/) to be used without
configuration, but you may need to disable it in some cases, such as when using
a Netlify CMS backend that conflicts. This is currently known to be the case
when using the GitLab backend, but only when using implicit OAuth.

```javascript
plugins: [
  {
    resolve: `gatsby-plugin-netlify-cms`,
    options: {
      enableIdentityWidget: true,
    },
  },
]
```

### `publicPath`

(_optional_, type: `string`, default: `"admin"`)

Customize the path to Netlify CMS on your Gatsby site.

### `htmlTitle`

(_optional_, type: `string`, default: `Content Manager`)

Customize the value of the `title` tag in your CMS HTML (shows in the browser
bar).

### `htmlFavicon`

(_optional_, type: `string`, default: `""`)

Customize the value of the `favicon` tag in your CMS HTML (shows in the browser
bar).

## Example

Here is the plugin with example values for all options (note that no option is
required):

```javascript
plugins: [
  {
    resolve: `gatsby-plugin-netlify-cms`,
    options: {
      modulePath: `path/to/custom/script.js`, // default: undefined
      enableIdentityWidget: true,
      publicPath: `admin`,
      htmlTitle: `Content Manager`,
      htmlFavicon: `path/to/favicon`,
    },
  },
]
```

## Support

For help with integrating Netlify CMS with Gatsby, check out the community
[Gitter](https://gitter.im/netlify/netlifycms).

[1]: https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/gatsby-plugin-netlify-cms@2.0.1/packages/gatsby-plugin-netlify-cms/README.md
[2]: https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/gatsby-plugin-netlify-cms@3.0.18/packages/gatsby-plugin-netlify-cms/README.md

Commit message:

feat(gatsby-plugin-netlify-cms): Add includeRobots (#16662)
* Add option to use meta tag to mark CMS page as noindex

* Update README

* Update README.md

* Flip

packages/gatsby-plugin-netlify-cms/README.md, after:

# gatsby-plugin-netlify-cms

**Gatsby v1 and Netlify CMS 1.x require [`gatsby-plugin-netlify-cms@^2.0.0`][1].**

**Gatsby v2 and Netlify CMS 2.x require [`gatsby-plugin-netlify-cms@^3.0.0`][2].**

**Gatsby v2 and Netlify CMS (netlify-cms-app) 2.9.x required `gatsby-plugin-netlify-cms@^4.0.0`, which is documented below.**

## Overview

Automatically generates an `admin/index.html` with a default Netlify CMS implementation.

Netlify CMS is a React single page app for editing git based content via API.
Its built for non-technical and technical editors alike, and its super easy to
install and configure. For more details, check out the [docs
site](https://netlifycms.org).

**Note:** `gatsby-plugin-netlify-cms@^4.0.0` changes the requirement for Netlify CMS to use a new library published `netlify-cms-app@^2.9.x` and is a **breaking change**.

## Install

```shell
npm install --save netlify-cms-app gatsby-plugin-netlify-cms
```

## How to use

Add the Netlify CMS plugin in your `gatsby-config.js`:

```javascript
plugins: [`gatsby-plugin-netlify-cms`]
```

Then add your Netlify CMS [configuration
file](https://www.netlifycms.org/docs/add-to-your-site/#configuration) in
`static/admin/config.yml`.

## Options

Netlify CMS can be configured via the plugin options below. You can learn
about how to pass options to plugins in the [Gatsby
docs](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/plugins/#how-to-use-gatsby-plugins).

### `modulePath`

(_optional_, type: `string | Array<string>`, default: `undefined`)

If you need to customize Netlify CMS, e.g. registering [custom
widgets](https://www.netlifycms.org/docs/custom-widgets/#registerwidget) or
styling the [preview
pane](https://www.netlifycms.org/docs/customization/#registerpreviewstyle),
you'll need to do so in a JavaScript module and provide Gatsby with the path to
your module via the `modulePath` option. Any styles imported by this module (or
by the modules that it imports, all the way down the chain) are automatically
applied to the editor preview pane by the plugin.

```javascript
plugins: [
  {
    resolve: `gatsby-plugin-netlify-cms`,
    options: {
      /**
       * One convention is to place your Netlify CMS customization code in a
       * `src/cms` directory.
       */
      modulePath: `${__dirname}/src/cms/cms.js`,
    },
  },
]
```

The js module might look like this:

```javascript
/**
 * The default export of `netlify-cms-app` is an object with all of the Netlify CMS
 * extension registration methods, such as `registerWidget` and
 * `registerPreviewTemplate`.
 */
import CMS from "netlify-cms-app"

/**
 * Any imported styles will automatically be applied to the editor preview
 * pane, there is no need to use `registerPreviewStyle` for imported styles.
 * All of the example imports below would result in styles being applied to the
 * preview pane.
 */
import "module-that-imports-styles.js"
import "styles.scss"
import "../other-styles.css"

/**
 * Let's say you've created widget and preview components for a custom image
 * gallery widget in separate files:
 */
import ImageGalleryWidget from "./image-gallery-widget.js"
import ImageGalleryPreview from "./image-gallery-preview.js"

/**
 * Register the imported widget:
 */
CMS.registerWidget(`image-gallery`, ImageGalleryWidget, ImageGalleryPreview)
```

### `manualInit`

(_optional_, type: `boolean`, default: `false`)

Set this to `true` If you need to [manually initialize](https://www.netlifycms.org/docs/beta-features/#manual-initialization) Netlify CMS. The plugin will take care of setting `window.CMS_MANUAL_INIT` to `true`:

```javascript
plugins: [
  {
    resolve: `gatsby-plugin-netlify-cms`,
    options: {
      manualInit: true,
    },
  },
]
```

The js module might look like this:

```javascript
import CMS from "netlify-cms-app"

/**
 * Optionally pass in a config object. This object will be merged into `config.yml` if it exists
 */

CMS.init({
  config: {
    backend: {
      name: "git-gateway",
    },
  },
})
```

### `enableIdentityWidget`

(_optional_, type: `boolean`, default: `true`)

`enableIdentityWidget` is `true` by default, allowing [Netlify
Identity](https://www.netlify.com/docs/identity/) to be used without
configuration, but you may need to disable it in some cases, such as when using
a Netlify CMS backend that conflicts. This is currently known to be the case
when using the GitLab backend, but only when using implicit OAuth.

```javascript
plugins: [
  {
    resolve: `gatsby-plugin-netlify-cms`,
    options: {
      enableIdentityWidget: true,
    },
  },
]
```

### `publicPath`

(_optional_, type: `string`, default: `"admin"`)

Customize the path to Netlify CMS on your Gatsby site.

### `htmlTitle`

(_optional_, type: `string`, default: `Content Manager`)

Customize the value of the `title` tag in your CMS HTML (shows in the browser
bar).

### `htmlFavicon`

(_optional_, type: `string`, default: `""`)

Customize the value of the `favicon` tag in your CMS HTML (shows in the browser
bar).

### `includeRobots`

(_optional_, type: `boolean`, default: `false`)

By default, the CMS page is not indexed by crawlers. Use this to add a `meta` tag to invite robots to index the CMS page.

## Example

Here is the plugin with example values for all options (note that no option is
required):

```javascript
plugins: [
  {
    resolve: `gatsby-plugin-netlify-cms`,
    options: {
      modulePath: `path/to/custom/script.js`, // default: undefined
      enableIdentityWidget: true,
      publicPath: `admin`,
      htmlTitle: `Content Manager`,
      htmlFavicon: `path/to/favicon`,
      includeRobots: false,
    },
  },
]
```

## Support

For help with integrating Netlify CMS with Gatsby, check out the community
[Gitter](https://gitter.im/netlify/netlifycms).

[1]: https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/gatsby-plugin-netlify-cms@2.0.1/packages/gatsby-plugin-netlify-cms/README.md
[2]: https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/gatsby-plugin-netlify-cms@3.0.18/packages/gatsby-plugin-netlify-cms/README.md
