packages/gatsby-source-contentful/README.md, before:

# gatsby-source-contentful

Source plugin for pulling data into Gatsby from Contentful spaces.

Pulls data from Contentful spaces with the [Contentful API](https://www.contentful.com/developers/docs/).

An example site for using this plugin is at
https://gatsby-using-contentful.netlify.com/

## Status

This module is at prototype-level.
It pulls Contentful ContentTypes, all entry types, and Assets. Then, it finds and links entry types with any other entry type or asset so they can be referenced together inside Gatsby via GraphQL.

Future improvements can include:

- Using Contentful's [sync functionality](https://www.contentful.com/developers/docs/concepts/sync/) to only get and update in Gatsby the delta of its CMS changes

## Install

`npm install --save gatsby-source-contentful`

## How to use

```javascript
// In your gatsby-config.js
plugins: [
  {
    resolve: `gatsby-source-contentful`,
    options: {
      spaceId: `your_space_id`,
      accessToken: `your_acces_token`,
    },
  },
]
```

## How to query

Two standard data types will be available pulled from Contentful: ContentType and Asset.

You can query Asset nodes created from Contentful like the following:

```graphql
{
  allContentfulAsset {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        file {
          url
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Non-standard data types e.g. entry types you create in Contentful will also be available as Gatsby nodes. You should find them in GraphQL schema under `contentful${entryTypeName}` and `allContentful${entryTypeName}`. For example, if you have a Product as one of your types, you may be able to query it like the following:

```graphql
allContentfulProduct {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        productName
        image {
          file {
            url
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Commit message:

[1.0] [gatsby-source-contentful] WIP support creating localized nodes (#1279)
* Make functions for fetching localized field + to make IDs

* First draft on localiziing nodes

* Add explaination for localization algorithm

* This was unnecessary

* Terminate comment

* update snapshots

* Add to demo site explanation/demo of localization

* Fix bug with creating links for reverse references

* Update README

packages/gatsby-source-contentful/README.md, after:

# gatsby-source-contentful

Source plugin for pulling content types, entries, and assets into Gatsby from Contentful spaces. It creates links between entry types and asset so they can be queried in Gatsby using GraphQL.

An example site for using this plugin is at
https://gatsby-using-contentful.netlify.com/

## Install

`npm install --save gatsby-source-contentful`

## How to use

```javascript
// In your gatsby-config.js
plugins: [
  {
    resolve: `gatsby-source-contentful`,
    options: {
      spaceId: `your_space_id`,
      accessToken: `your_acces_token`,
    },
  },
]
```

## How to query

Two standard data types will be available from Contentful: `ContentType` and `Asset`.

You can query Asset nodes created from Contentful like the following:

```graphql
{
  allContentfulAsset {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        file {
          url
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Non-standard data types, i.e. entry types you define in Contentful, will also
be available in Gatsby. They'll be created in your site's GraphQL schema under
`contentful${entryTypeName}` and `allContentful${entryTypeName}`. For example,
if you have `Product` as one of your content types, you will be able to query
it like the following:

```graphql
allContentfulProduct {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        productName
        image {
          responsiveResolution(width: 100) {
            width
            height
            src
            srcSet
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```
