docs/tutorial/part-three/index.md, before:

---
title: Building nested layouts in Gatsby
typora-copy-images-to: ./
---

Welcome to part three!

## What's in this tutorial?

In this part, you'll learn about how Gatsby lets you create "layout components". Layout components are
sections of your site that you want to share across multiple pages. For example,
Gatsby sites will commonly have a layout component with a shared header and
footer. Other common things to add to layouts are a sidebar and navigation menu.

On this page, the sidebar to the left (assuming you're on a larger device) and
the header at the top are part of gatsbyjs.org's layout component.

Let's dive in and explore Gatsby layouts.

## Install a starter

First, create a new site for this part of the tutorial (and, as we mentioned in Part Two, at this point it's probably a good idea to close the terminal window(s) and project files from previous parts of the tutorial, to keep things clean on your desktop). We'll use a "hello world" starter again:

```shell
gatsby new tutorial-part-three https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-hello-world
cd tutorial-part-three
```

Once the site is finished installing, install `gatsby-plugin-typography`. For a reminder of how to do this, see Part Two of the tutorials. For
the Typography.js theme, let's try the "Fairy Gates" typography theme this time:

```shell
npm install --save gatsby-plugin-typography typography-theme-fairy-gates
```

Create a `src/utils` directory, and then create the typography config file at `src/utils/typography.js`:

```javascript
import Typography from "typography";
import fairyGateTheme from "typography-theme-fairy-gates";

const typography = new Typography(fairyGateTheme);

export default typography;
```

Then create our site's `gatsby-config.js` at the root of the site, and add the following code to it:

```javascript
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    {
      resolve: `gatsby-plugin-typography`,
      options: {
        pathToConfigModule: `src/utils/typography.js`,
      },
    },
  ],
};
```

Now, let's add a few different pages: a front page, an about page, and a contact
page.

`src/pages/index.js`

```jsx
import React from "react";

export default () => (
  <div>
    <h1>Hi! I'm building a fake Gatsby site as part of a tutorial!</h1>
    <p>
      What do I like to do? Lots of course but definitely enjoy building
      websites.
    </p>
  </div>
);
```

`src/pages/about.js`

```jsx
import React from "react";

export default () => (
  <div>
    <h1>About me</h1>
    <p>I’m good enough, I’m smart enough, and gosh darn it, people like me!</p>
  </div>
);
```

`src/pages/contact.js`

```jsx
import React from "react";

export default () => (
  <div>
    <h1>I'd love to talk! Email me at the address below</h1>
    <p>
      <a href="mailto:me@example.com">me@example.com</a>
    </p>
  </div>
);
```

![no-layout](no-layout.png)

We now have the start of a nice personal site!

But there are a few problems. First, it'd be nice if the page content was
centered on the screen like in part two of the tutorial. And second, we should
really have some sort of global navigation so it's easy for visitors to find and
visit each of the sub-pages.

Let's tackle these problems by creating our first layout component.

## Our first layout component

First, create a new directory at `src/layouts`. All layout components have to be
in this directory.

Let's create a very basic layout component at `src/layouts/index.js`:

```jsx
import React from "react";

export default ({ children }) => (
  <div style={{ margin: `0 auto`, maxWidth: 650, padding: `0 1rem` }}>
    {children()}
  </div>
);
```

_Notice that unlike most `children` props, the `children` prop passed to layout
components is a function and needs to be executed_

Stop `gatsby develop` and start it again for the new layout to take effect.

![with-layout2](with-layout2.png)

Sweet, the layout is working! Now, our text is centered and constrained to a
column 650 pixels wide, as we specified.

Let's now add, in the same file, our site title:

```jsx{5}
import React from "react";

export default ({ children }) =>
  <div style={{ margin: `0 auto`, maxWidth: 650, padding: `0 1rem` }}>
    <h3>MySweetSite</h3>
    {children()}
  </div>
```

If we go to any of our three pages we'll see the same title added e.g. the
`/about/` page:

![with-title](with-title.png)

Let's add navigation links to each of our three pages:

```jsx{2-9,12-22}
import React from "react";
import Link from "gatsby-link";

const ListLink = props =>
  <li style={{ display: `inline-block`, marginRight: `1rem` }}>
    <Link to={props.to}>
      {props.children}
    </Link>
  </li>

export default ({ children }) =>
  <div style={{ margin: `0 auto`, maxWidth: 650, padding: `1.25rem 1rem` }}>
    <header style={{ marginBottom: `1.5rem` }}>
      <Link to="/" style={{ textShadow: `none`, backgroundImage: `none` }}>
        <h3 style={{ display: `inline` }}>MySweetSite</h3>
      </Link>
      <ul style={{ listStyle: `none`, float: `right` }}>
        <ListLink to="/">Home</ListLink>
        <ListLink to="/about/">About</ListLink>
        <ListLink to="/contact/">Contact</ListLink>
      </ul>
    </header>
    {children()}
  </div>
```

![with-navigation](with-navigation.png)

And there we have it! A three page site with a basic global navigation.

_Challenge:_ With your new "layout component" powers, trying adding headers, footers,
global navigation, sidebars, etc. to your Gatsby sites!

## What's coming next?

Continue on to
[part four of the tutorial where we'll start learning about Gatsby's data layer and programmatic pages!](/tutorial/part-four/)

Commit message:

Explained what cd means for starter installation (#4737)
* Explained what cd means for starter installation

Is "change" the right word in this phrasing?

"Similar to part one, open a new terminal window and run the following commands to install and then change to your new tutorial-part-two directory:"

* made name of directory clear

* Add back ticks to directory, grammar edit

* Add back ticks to directory, grammar

Broke up the sentence and opted for “just like in” for clarity. “Similar to” makes me have to think “what is similar?” which makes me doubt myself.

* added back ticks

Thanks for this idea!

docs/tutorial/part-three/index.md, after:

---
title: Building nested layouts in Gatsby
typora-copy-images-to: ./
---

Welcome to part three!

## What's in this tutorial?

In this part, you'll learn about how Gatsby lets you create "layout components". Layout components are
sections of your site that you want to share across multiple pages. For example,
Gatsby sites will commonly have a layout component with a shared header and
footer. Other common things to add to layouts are a sidebar and navigation menu.

On this page, the sidebar to the left (assuming you're on a larger device) and
the header at the top are part of gatsbyjs.org's layout component.

Let's dive in and explore Gatsby layouts.

## Install a starter

As we mentioned in Part Two, at this point it's probably a good idea to close the terminal window(s) and project files from previous parts of the tutorial, to keep things clean on your desktop. Then, open a new terminal window and and run the following commands to create a new Gatsby site in a directory called `tutorial-part-three` and then move to this new directory:

```shell
gatsby new tutorial-part-three https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-hello-world
cd tutorial-part-three
```

Once the site is finished installing, install `gatsby-plugin-typography`. For a reminder of how to do this, see Part Two of the tutorials. For
the Typography.js theme, let's try the "Fairy Gates" typography theme this time:

```shell
npm install --save gatsby-plugin-typography typography-theme-fairy-gates
```

Create a `src/utils` directory, and then create the typography config file at `src/utils/typography.js`:

```javascript
import Typography from "typography";
import fairyGateTheme from "typography-theme-fairy-gates";

const typography = new Typography(fairyGateTheme);

export default typography;
```

Then create our site's `gatsby-config.js` at the root of the site, and add the following code to it:

```javascript
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    {
      resolve: `gatsby-plugin-typography`,
      options: {
        pathToConfigModule: `src/utils/typography.js`,
      },
    },
  ],
};
```

Now, let's add a few different pages: a front page, an about page, and a contact
page.

`src/pages/index.js`

```jsx
import React from "react";

export default () => (
  <div>
    <h1>Hi! I'm building a fake Gatsby site as part of a tutorial!</h1>
    <p>
      What do I like to do? Lots of course but definitely enjoy building
      websites.
    </p>
  </div>
);
```

`src/pages/about.js`

```jsx
import React from "react";

export default () => (
  <div>
    <h1>About me</h1>
    <p>I’m good enough, I’m smart enough, and gosh darn it, people like me!</p>
  </div>
);
```

`src/pages/contact.js`

```jsx
import React from "react";

export default () => (
  <div>
    <h1>I'd love to talk! Email me at the address below</h1>
    <p>
      <a href="mailto:me@example.com">me@example.com</a>
    </p>
  </div>
);
```

![no-layout](no-layout.png)

We now have the start of a nice personal site!

But there are a few problems. First, it'd be nice if the page content was
centered on the screen like in part two of the tutorial. And second, we should
really have some sort of global navigation so it's easy for visitors to find and
visit each of the sub-pages.

Let's tackle these problems by creating our first layout component.

## Our first layout component

First, create a new directory at `src/layouts`. All layout components have to be
in this directory.

Let's create a very basic layout component at `src/layouts/index.js`:

```jsx
import React from "react";

export default ({ children }) => (
  <div style={{ margin: `0 auto`, maxWidth: 650, padding: `0 1rem` }}>
    {children()}
  </div>
);
```

_Notice that unlike most `children` props, the `children` prop passed to layout
components is a function and needs to be executed_

Stop `gatsby develop` and start it again for the new layout to take effect.

![with-layout2](with-layout2.png)

Sweet, the layout is working! Now, our text is centered and constrained to a
column 650 pixels wide, as we specified.

Let's now add, in the same file, our site title:

```jsx{5}
import React from "react";

export default ({ children }) =>
  <div style={{ margin: `0 auto`, maxWidth: 650, padding: `0 1rem` }}>
    <h3>MySweetSite</h3>
    {children()}
  </div>
```

If we go to any of our three pages we'll see the same title added e.g. the
`/about/` page:

![with-title](with-title.png)

Let's add navigation links to each of our three pages:

```jsx{2-9,12-22}
import React from "react";
import Link from "gatsby-link";

const ListLink = props =>
  <li style={{ display: `inline-block`, marginRight: `1rem` }}>
    <Link to={props.to}>
      {props.children}
    </Link>
  </li>

export default ({ children }) =>
  <div style={{ margin: `0 auto`, maxWidth: 650, padding: `1.25rem 1rem` }}>
    <header style={{ marginBottom: `1.5rem` }}>
      <Link to="/" style={{ textShadow: `none`, backgroundImage: `none` }}>
        <h3 style={{ display: `inline` }}>MySweetSite</h3>
      </Link>
      <ul style={{ listStyle: `none`, float: `right` }}>
        <ListLink to="/">Home</ListLink>
        <ListLink to="/about/">About</ListLink>
        <ListLink to="/contact/">Contact</ListLink>
      </ul>
    </header>
    {children()}
  </div>
```

![with-navigation](with-navigation.png)

And there we have it! A three page site with a basic global navigation.

_Challenge:_ With your new "layout component" powers, trying adding headers, footers,
global navigation, sidebars, etc. to your Gatsby sites!

## What's coming next?

Continue on to
[part four of the tutorial where we'll start learning about Gatsby's data layer and programmatic pages!](/tutorial/part-four/)
