docs/docs/api-specification.md, before:

---
title: API Specification
---

Gatsby's APIs are tailored conceptually to some extent after React.js to improve
the coherence between the two systems.

The two top priorities of the API are a) enable a broad and robust plugin
ecosystem and b) on top of that a broad and robust theme ecosystem (themes are
on the back burner btw until after v1 comes out).

## Prerequisites

If you’re not familiar with Gatsby’s lifecycle, see the overview [Gatsby Lifecycle APIs](/docs/gatsby-lifecycle-apis/).

## Plugins

Plugins can extend Gatsby in many ways:

- Sourcing data (e.g. from the filesystem or an API or a database)
- Transforming data from one type to another (e.g. a markdown file to HTML)
- Creating pages (e.g. a directory of markdown files all gets turned into pages
  with URLs derived from their file names).
- Modifying webpack config (e.g. for styling options, adding support for other
  compile-to-js languages)
- Adding things to the rendered HTML (e.g. meta tags, analytics JS snippets like
  Google Analytics)
- Writing out things to build directory based on site data (e.g. service worker,
  sitemap, RSS feed)

A single plugin can use multiple APIs to accomplish its purpose. E.g. the plugin
for the CSS-in-JS library [Glamor](/packages/gatsby-plugin-glamor/):

1.  modifies the webpack config to add its plugin
2.  adds a Babel plugin to replace React's default createElement
3.  modifies server rendering to extract out the critical CSS for each rendered
    page and inline the CSS in the `<head>` of that HTML page.

Plugins can also depend on other plugins. [The Sharp
plugin](/packages/gatsby-plugin-sharp/) exposes a number of high-level APIs for
transforming images that several other Gatsby image plugins depend on.
[gatsby-transformer-remark](/packages/gatsby-transformer-remark/) does basic
markdown->html transformation but exposes an API to allow other plugins to
intervene in the conversion process e.g.
[gatsby-remark-prismjs](/packages/gatsby-remark-prismjs/) which adds
highlighting to code blocks.

Transformer plugins are decoupled from source plugins. Transformer plugins look
at the media type of new nodes created by source plugins to decide if they can
transform it or not. Which means that a markdown transformer plugin can
transform markdown from any source without any other configuration e.g. from a
file, a code comment, or external service like Trello which supports markdown
in some of its data fields.

See
[the full list of (official only for now — adding support for community plugins later) plugins](/docs/plugins/).

# API

## Concepts

- _Page_ — a site page with a pathname, a template component, and optional
  GraphQL query.
- _Page Component_ — React.js component that renders a page and can optionally
  specify a GraphQL query
- _Component extensions_ — extensions that are resolvable as components. `.js`
  and `.jsx` are supported by core. But plugins can add support for other
  compile-to-js languages.
- _Dependency_ — Gatsby automatically tracks dependencies between different
  objects e.g. a page can depend on certain nodes. This allows for hot
  reloading, caching, incremental rebuilds, etc.
- _Node_ — a data object
- _Node Field_ — a field added by a plugin to a node that it doesn't control
- _Node Link_ — a connection between nodes that gets converted to GraphQL
  relationships. Can be created in a variety of ways as well as automatically
  inferred. Parent/child links from nodes and their transformed derivative nodes
  are first class links.

_More definitions and terms are defined in the [Glossary](/docs/glossary/)_

## Operators

- _Create_ — make a new thing
- _Get_ — get an existing thing
- _Delete_ — remove an existing thing
- _Replace_ — replace an existing thing
- _Set_ — merge into an existing thing

## Extension APIs

Gatsby has multiple processes. The most prominent is the "bootstrap" process. It
has several subprocesses. One tricky part to their design is that they run both
once during the initial bootstrap but also stay alive during development to
continue to respond to changes. This is what drives hot reloading that all
Gatsby data is "alive" and reacts to changes in the environment.

The bootstrap process is as follows:

load site config -> load plugins -> source nodes -> transform nodes -> create
graphql schema -> create pages -> compile component queries -> run queries ->
fin

Once the initial bootstrap is finished, we start `webpack-dev-server` and an express server for serving files for the development server, and for a production build, we start building the CSS then JavaScript then HTML with webpack.

During these processes there are various extension points where plugins can
intervene. All major processes have an `onPre` and `onPost` e.g. `onPreBootstrap`
and `onPostBootstrap` or `onPreBuild` or `onPostBuild`. During bootstrap,
plugins can respond at various stages to APIs like `onCreatePages`,
`onCreateBabelConfig`, and `onSourceNodes`.

At each extension point, Gatsby identifies the plugins which implement the API
and calls them in serial following their order in the site's `gatsby-config.js`.

In addition to extension APIs in a node, plugins can also implement extension APIs
in the server rendering process and the browser e.g. `onClientEntry` or
`onRouteUpdate`

The three main inspirations for this API and spec are React.js' API specifically
[@leebyron's email on the React API](https://gist.github.com/vjeux/f2b015d230cc1ab18ed1df30550495ed),
this talk
["How to Design a Good API and Why it Matters" by Joshua Bloch](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=heh4OeB9A-c&app=desktop)
who designed many parts of Java, and [Hapi.js](https://hapijs.com/api)' plugin
design.

Commit message:

Updated api.specification.md to adhere to gatsby style guide (#18311)
* Updated api.specification.md

* resolve some type

* enhancement some sentence

* Update docs/docs/api-specification.md

Co-Authored-By: Marcy Sutton <marcy@gatsbyjs.com>

docs/docs/api-specification.md, after:

---
title: API Specification
---

Gatsby's APIs are tailored conceptually to some extent after React.js to improve
the coherence between the two systems.

The two top priorities of the API are a) enable a broad and robust plugin
ecosystem and b) on top of that a broad and robust theme ecosystem (themes are
on the back burner btw until after v1 comes out).

## Prerequisites

If you’re not familiar with Gatsby’s lifecycle, see the overview [Gatsby Lifecycle APIs](/docs/gatsby-lifecycle-apis/).

## Plugins

Plugins can extend Gatsby in many ways:

- Sourcing data (e.g. from the filesystem or an API or a database)
- Transforming data from one type to another (e.g. a markdown file to HTML)
- Creating pages (e.g. a directory of markdown files all gets turned into pages
  with URLs derived from their file names).
- Modifying webpack config (e.g. for styling options, adding support for other
  compile-to-js languages)
- Adding things to the rendered HTML (e.g. meta tags, analytics JS snippets like
  Google Analytics)
- Writing out things to build directory based on site data (e.g. service worker,
  sitemap, RSS feed)

A single plugin can use multiple APIs to accomplish its purpose. E.g. the plugin
for the CSS-in-JS library [Glamor](/packages/gatsby-plugin-glamor/):

1.  modifies the webpack config to add its plugin
2.  adds a Babel plugin to replace React's default createElement
3.  modifies server rendering to extract out the critical CSS for each rendered
    page and inline the CSS in the `<head>` of that HTML page.

Plugins can also depend on other plugins. [The Sharp
plugin](/packages/gatsby-plugin-sharp/) exposes a number of high-level APIs for
transforming images that several other Gatsby image plugins depend on.
[gatsby-transformer-remark](/packages/gatsby-transformer-remark/) does basic
markdown->html transformation but exposes an API to allow other plugins to
intervene in the conversion process e.g.
[gatsby-remark-prismjs](/packages/gatsby-remark-prismjs/) which adds
highlighting to code blocks.

Transformer plugins are decoupled from source plugins. Transformer plugins look
at the media type of new nodes created by source plugins to decide if they can
transform it or not. Which means that a markdown transformer plugin can
transform markdown from any source without any other configuration e.g. from a
file, a code comment, or external service like Trello which supports markdown
in some of its data fields.

See
[the full list of (official only for now — adding support for community plugins later) plugins](/docs/plugins/).

# API

## Concepts

- _Page_ — a site page with a pathname, a template component, and optional
  GraphQL query.
- _Page Component_ — React.js component that renders a page and can optionally
  specify a GraphQL query
- _Component extensions_ — extensions that are resolvable as components. `.js`
  and `.jsx` are supported by core. But plugins can add support for other
  compile-to-js languages.
- _Dependency_ — Gatsby automatically tracks dependencies between different
  objects e.g. a page can depend on certain nodes. This allows for hot
  reloading, caching, incremental rebuilds, etc.
- _Node_ — a data object
- _Node Field_ — a field added by a plugin to a node that it doesn't control
- _Node Link_ — a connection between nodes that gets converted to GraphQL
  relationships. Can be created in a variety of ways as well as automatically
  inferred. Parent/child links from nodes and their transformed derivative nodes
  are first class links.

_More definitions and terms are defined in the [Glossary](/docs/glossary/)_

## Operators

- _Create_ — make a new thing
- _Get_ — get an existing thing
- _Delete_ — remove an existing thing
- _Replace_ — replace an existing thing
- _Set_ — merge into an existing thing

## Extension APIs

Gatsby has multiple processes. The most prominent is the "bootstrap" process. It
has several subprocesses. One tricky part to their design is that they run both
once during the initial bootstrap but also stay alive during development to
continue to respond to changes. This is what drives hot reloading that all
Gatsby data is "alive" and reacts to changes in the environment.

The bootstrap process is as follows:

load site config -> load plugins -> source nodes -> transform nodes -> create
graphql schema -> create pages -> compile component queries -> run queries ->
fin

Once the initial bootstrap is finished, a `webpack-dev-server` and express server are started for serving files for the development workflow with live updates. For a production build, Gatsby skips the development server and instead builds the CSS, then JavaScript, then static HTML with webpack.

During these processes there are various extension points where plugins can
intervene. All major processes have an `onPre` and `onPost` e.g. `onPreBootstrap`
and `onPostBootstrap` or `onPreBuild` or `onPostBuild`. During bootstrap,
plugins can respond at various stages to APIs like `onCreatePages`,
`onCreateBabelConfig`, and `onSourceNodes`.

At each extension point, Gatsby identifies the plugins which implement the API
and calls them in serial following their order in the site's `gatsby-config.js`.

In addition to extension APIs in a node, plugins can also implement extension APIs
in the server rendering process and the browser e.g. `onClientEntry` or
`onRouteUpdate`

The three main inspirations for this API and spec are React.js' API specifically
[@leebyron's email on the React API](https://gist.github.com/vjeux/f2b015d230cc1ab18ed1df30550495ed),
this talk
["How to Design a Good API and Why it Matters" by Joshua Bloch](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=heh4OeB9A-c&app=desktop)
who designed many parts of Java, and [Hapi.js](https://hapijs.com/api)' plugin
design.
