docs/docs/awesome-gatsby-resources.md, before:

---
title: Awesome Gatsby Resources
---

A curated list of interesting Gatsby community projects and learning resources.

## Site showcase

See the [site showcase](/showcase/)

## Starters

See the [library of official and community starters](/starters/)

## Plugins

See the [library of official and community plugins](/plugins/)

## Tools

- [Develop & Build GatsbyJS static sites within Docker](https://github.com/aripalo/gatsby-docker/)
- Is Gatsby? - Browser extension for [Chrome](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/is-gatsby/jgaejkhmgkpagdmapahohjennkhbpgfj) and [Firefox](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/is-gatsby/) to check if a site / page is using Gatsby.

## Podcasts

- [2019-06-05: Jason Lengstorf on Syntax #150: Gatsby Themes](https://syntax.fm/show/150/gatsby-themes)
- [2019-05-22: Jason Lengstorf on Full Stack Radio #115: Gatsby for Skeptics](http://www.fullstackradio.com/115)
- [2019-04-12: Jason Lengstorf on JS Party #71](https://changelog.com/jsparty/71)
- [2018-11-30: Kyle Mathews on Founders Talk #59](https://changelog.com/founderstalk/59)
- [2018-11-14: Jason Lengstorf on React Podcast](https://reactpodcast.simplecast.fm/28)
- [2018-07-18: The Great GatsbyJS w/ Jason Lengstorf on The Changelog #306](https://changelog.com/podcast/306)
- [2018-04-17: Gatsby.js w/Jason Lengstorf](https://spec.fm/podcasts/toolsday/134337)
- [2018-02-28: syntax.fm on Static Site Generators (lots of Gatsby love)](https://syntax.fm/show/034/why-static-site-generators-are-awesome)
- [2017-09-21: Kyle Mathews on JAMSTACK radio on "Static Site Generation with GatsbyJS](https://www.heavybit.com/library/podcasts/jamstack-radio/ep-22-static-site-generation-with-gatsbyjs/)
- [2017-07-21: Kyle Mathews on Web of Tomorrow](https://www.orbit.fm/weboftomorrow/39/)
- [2017-08-17: Kyle Mathews on Software Engineering Daily](https://softwareengineeringdaily.com/2017/08/17/gatsbyjs-with-kyle-mathews/)

## Videos

- [Gatsby's official YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCjnp770qk7ujOq8Q9wiC82w)
- [Jason Lengstorf's "Learn stuff with Jason" playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLz8Iz-Fnk_eTpvd49Sa77NiF8Uqq5Iykx)
- [Gatsby Days Bay Area December 2018 - Kyle Mathews & Guest Speakers](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLCU2qJekvcN1wzgVKymbjbGtZ3VgAWOdj)
- [Static Site Generation with Gatsby.js v0 — Scott Nonnenberg](https://blog.scottnonnenberg.com/static-site-generation-with-gatsby-js/)
- [React.js Conf 2016 - Lightning Talks - Kyle Mathews](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RFkNRKL6ZoE)
- [Developing with React and Gatsby.js — Kyle Mathews](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G4LVKJOOj7o)
- [GraphQL Summit Open Source Lightning Talk on Gatsby — Kyle Mathews](https://youtu.be/y588qNiCZZo)
- [Talk on GatsbyJS @ ViennaJS — Gerald Bauer](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f0O1nCgqA3E&feature=youtu.be&a)

## Livestreams

- [Learn with Jason](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLCU2qJekvcN0RuMHCnjMYAKlpSKQ_e1hO)

## Gatsby tutorials

- [Official tutorial](/tutorial/)
- [Creating a blog with Gatsby](/blog/2017-07-19-creating-a-blog-with-gatsby/)
- [Level Up Tutorials series on creating a blog](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b2H7fWhQcdE&list=PLLnpHn493BHHfoINKLELxDch3uJlSapxg)
- [Level up Tutorials Pro Gatsby series](https://www.leveluptutorials.com/store/products/tutorials/lut-dd020)
- [Giraffe Academy series on getting started with Gatsby](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLLAZ4kZ9dFpMXuwazIt4mWtTuqOHdjRlk)
- [Egghead course — "Build a Blog with React and Markdown using Gatsby"](https://egghead.io/courses/build-a-blog-with-react-and-markdown-using-gatsby)
- [Build a photo site with Gatsby — 6 part tutorial](https://jeremey.blog/gatsby-photo/)
- [Blazing fast website with Gatsby and Contentful series](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ek4o40w1tH4&list=PL8KiuH6vpACV-F7jXribe4YveGBhBeG9A)
- [Image Optimization Made Easy with Gatsby.js](https://medium.com/@kyle.robert.gill/ridiculously-easy-image-optimization-with-gatsby-js-59d48e15db6e)
- [ReactJS E-Commerce With No Backend Using Snipcart & Gatsby](https://snipcart.com/blog/snipcart-reactjs-static-ecommerce-gatsby)
- [Michael Cereda's multi-part series of blog posts on building his site with Gatsby](https://medium.com/@michaelcereda/creating-an-isomorphic-universal-website-with-react-part-1-a905350acba8#.akoo25l6j)
- [Gatsby – Static Site Generator For React](https://codingthesmartway.com/gatsby-static-site-generater-for-react-introduction/)
- [Build your own blog CMS with Gatsby and Airtable](https://blog.airtable.com/build-your-own-custom-blog-cms-with-airtable-and-gatsbyjs/)
- [Gatsby JS Crash Course](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6YhqQ2ZW1sc)
- [How I made my portfolio website blazing fast with Gatsby](https://medium.freecodecamp.org/how-i-made-my-portfolio-website-blazing-fast-with-gatsby-82ccddc2f671)
- [JAMstack Basics: How to Create a Gatsby Starter with Contentful and Deploy to Netlify](https://itnext.io/jamstack-basics-how-to-create-a-gatsby-starter-with-contentful-and-deploy-to-netlify-846354cc74bc)
- [How to deploy a static Gatsby app to Heroku](https://medium.freecodecamp.org/how-to-deploy-a-static-gatsby-app-to-heroku-3362e3ecda0f)
- [A comprehensive guide to build your personal website using GatsbyJS and Ghost deployed on AWS](https://nishantdania.com/blog/guide-to-setup-ghost-gatsby-website)
- [Zero to Deploy: A Practical Guide to Static Sites with Gatsby.js](https://scotch.io/tutorials/zero-to-deploy-a-practical-guide-to-static-sites-with-gatsbyjs)
- [Build blazing fast web applications with Gatsby 101](https://gatsbyguides.com/)
- [Build a Coffee Shop Website w/ Gatsby, Contentful, SnipCard & Formspree](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAVhEPey_qA)
- [Why I used GatsbyJS](https://medium.com/@jameshunt.co/why-i-used-gatsbyjs-70bbb0f5c4a7)
- [Introducing Dashbored — Generate Static Dashboards Using Gatsby](https://medium.com/planes-agency/introducing-dashbored-62550a028fcc)
- [12 Factor Applications with GatsbyJS](https://medium.com/@wonderboymusic/12-factor-applications-with-gatsbyjs-ef8a2b1f883a)
- [Reading Data From A JSON File With Gatsby + GraphQL](https://itnext.io/reading-data-from-a-json-file-with-gatsby-graphql-572b18ab98a)
- [The Great Gatsby Bootcamp \[Full Course\] - Andrew Mead](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8t0vNu2fCCM)
- [Understanding the Gatsby lifecycle](https://medium.com/narative/understanding-gatsbys-lifecycle-31c473ba2f2d)
- [GatsbyGuides.com series on building web applications with Gatsby & Drupal](https://gatsbyguides.com/)
- [Deep dive into Gatsby – Building a static blog using Gatsby, React and GraphQL](https://zocada.com/deep-dive-gatsby-building-a-simple-static-blog-using-gatsby-react-and-graphql/)

### German

- [Ultra-schnellen Blog mit React und Gatsby erstellen (German)](https://www.lekoarts.de/blog/ultra-schnellen-blog-mit-react-und-gatsby-erstellen)
- [styled-components in Gatsby nutzen (German)](https://www.lekoarts.de/blog/styled-components-in-gatsby-nutzen)
- [Kategorien & Tags zu Gatsby hinzufügen (German)](https://www.lekoarts.de/blog/kategorien-tags-zu-gatsby-hinzufugen/)
- [Erstelle dein Design System mit Gatsby (German)](https://www.lekoarts.de/blog/erstelle-dein-design-system-mit-gatsby/)
- [Upgrade-Guide: Gatsby v2 (German)](https://www.lekoarts.de/blog/upgrade-guide-gatsby-v-2/)

### Russian

- [JAMstack: Как создать свой блог используя Gatsby + Contentful + Netlify (Russian)](https://habr.com/ru/post/439232/)
- [Gatsby.js в деталях (Russian)](https://habr.com/ru/post/442298/)

### Spanish

- [Construye y Publica Tu Blog Personal con Gatsby y Netlify (Spanish)](https://medium.com/@n370/construye-y-publica-tu-blog-personal-con-gatsby-y-netlify-parte-1-89804ba63625)

### Turkish

- [GatsbyJS ile Modern Web Sitesi | 1. Bölüm (Başlangıç ve Kurulum) (Turkish)](https://medium.com/@raufsamestone/reactjs-ve-gatsbyjs-ile-modern-web-sitesi-1-b%C3%B6l%C3%BCm-ba%C5%9Flang%C4%B1%C3%A7-ve-kurulum-27437d6aaf54)

### Ukrainian

- [JAMstack: створюємо блог з Gatsby + Contentful + Netlify (Ukrainian)](https://dou.ua/lenta/articles/creating-blog-with-jamstack/)
- [Детально про Gatsby.js — інструмент для створення складних веб-сайтів (Ukrainian)](https://dou.ua/lenta/articles/gatsbyjs-guide/)

## Other resources

### DEV Community

[The DEV Community Gatsby tag](https://dev.to/t/gatsbyjs) is a place to share Gatsby projects, articles and tutorials as well as start discussions and ask for feedback on Gatsby-related topics. Developers of all skill-levels are welcome to take part.

### Hashnode Community

[Gatsby community on Hashnode](https://hashnode.com/n/gatsby) is a place where you can read discussions about Gatsby projects, read articles and tutorials and ask the rest of the Hashnode community Gatsby-related questions.

### Reddit Community

[Gatsby community on Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/gatsbyjs) is a place where you can read news about Gatsby, interact with other Gatsby developers and get advice on Gatsby-related Questions.

### FreeCodeCamp Community

[The FreeCodeCamp News Gatsby tag](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/tag/gatsby/) is a place where you can write and read substantial articles around Gatsby-related topics.

Commit message:

chore(docs): three new resources to the Gatsby tutorials section (#18729)
* Update awesome-gatsby-resources.md

* remove duplicates

docs/docs/awesome-gatsby-resources.md, after:

---
title: Awesome Gatsby Resources
---

A curated list of interesting Gatsby community projects and learning resources.

## Site showcase

See the [site showcase](/showcase/)

## Starters

See the [library of official and community starters](/starters/)

## Plugins

See the [library of official and community plugins](/plugins/)

## Tools

- [Develop & Build GatsbyJS static sites within Docker](https://github.com/aripalo/gatsby-docker/)
- Is Gatsby? - Browser extension for [Chrome](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/is-gatsby/jgaejkhmgkpagdmapahohjennkhbpgfj) and [Firefox](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/is-gatsby/) to check if a site / page is using Gatsby.

## Podcasts

- [2019-06-05: Jason Lengstorf on Syntax #150: Gatsby Themes](https://syntax.fm/show/150/gatsby-themes)
- [2019-05-22: Jason Lengstorf on Full Stack Radio #115: Gatsby for Skeptics](http://www.fullstackradio.com/115)
- [2019-04-12: Jason Lengstorf on JS Party #71](https://changelog.com/jsparty/71)
- [2018-11-30: Kyle Mathews on Founders Talk #59](https://changelog.com/founderstalk/59)
- [2018-11-14: Jason Lengstorf on React Podcast](https://reactpodcast.simplecast.fm/28)
- [2018-07-18: The Great GatsbyJS w/ Jason Lengstorf on The Changelog #306](https://changelog.com/podcast/306)
- [2018-04-17: Gatsby.js w/Jason Lengstorf](https://spec.fm/podcasts/toolsday/134337)
- [2018-02-28: syntax.fm on Static Site Generators (lots of Gatsby love)](https://syntax.fm/show/034/why-static-site-generators-are-awesome)
- [2017-09-21: Kyle Mathews on JAMSTACK radio on "Static Site Generation with GatsbyJS](https://www.heavybit.com/library/podcasts/jamstack-radio/ep-22-static-site-generation-with-gatsbyjs/)
- [2017-07-21: Kyle Mathews on Web of Tomorrow](https://www.orbit.fm/weboftomorrow/39/)
- [2017-08-17: Kyle Mathews on Software Engineering Daily](https://softwareengineeringdaily.com/2017/08/17/gatsbyjs-with-kyle-mathews/)

## Videos

- [Gatsby's official YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCjnp770qk7ujOq8Q9wiC82w)
- [Jason Lengstorf's "Learn stuff with Jason" playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLz8Iz-Fnk_eTpvd49Sa77NiF8Uqq5Iykx)
- [Gatsby Days Bay Area December 2018 - Kyle Mathews & Guest Speakers](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLCU2qJekvcN1wzgVKymbjbGtZ3VgAWOdj)
- [Static Site Generation with Gatsby.js v0 — Scott Nonnenberg](https://blog.scottnonnenberg.com/static-site-generation-with-gatsby-js/)
- [React.js Conf 2016 - Lightning Talks - Kyle Mathews](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RFkNRKL6ZoE)
- [Developing with React and Gatsby.js — Kyle Mathews](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G4LVKJOOj7o)
- [GraphQL Summit Open Source Lightning Talk on Gatsby — Kyle Mathews](https://youtu.be/y588qNiCZZo)
- [Talk on GatsbyJS @ ViennaJS — Gerald Bauer](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f0O1nCgqA3E&feature=youtu.be&a)

## Livestreams

- [Learn with Jason](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLCU2qJekvcN0RuMHCnjMYAKlpSKQ_e1hO)

## Gatsby tutorials

- [Official tutorial](/tutorial/)
- [Creating a blog with Gatsby](/blog/2017-07-19-creating-a-blog-with-gatsby/)
- [Level Up Tutorials series on creating a blog](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b2H7fWhQcdE&list=PLLnpHn493BHHfoINKLELxDch3uJlSapxg)
- [Level up Tutorials Pro Gatsby series](https://www.leveluptutorials.com/store/products/tutorials/lut-dd020)
- [Giraffe Academy series on getting started with Gatsby](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLLAZ4kZ9dFpMXuwazIt4mWtTuqOHdjRlk)
- [Egghead course — "Build a Blog with React and Markdown using Gatsby"](https://egghead.io/courses/build-a-blog-with-react-and-markdown-using-gatsby)
- [Build a photo site with Gatsby — 6 part tutorial](https://jeremey.blog/gatsby-photo/)
- [Blazing fast website with Gatsby and Contentful series](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ek4o40w1tH4&list=PL8KiuH6vpACV-F7jXribe4YveGBhBeG9A)
- [Image Optimization Made Easy with Gatsby.js](https://medium.com/@kyle.robert.gill/ridiculously-easy-image-optimization-with-gatsby-js-59d48e15db6e)
- [ReactJS E-Commerce With No Backend Using Snipcart & Gatsby](https://snipcart.com/blog/snipcart-reactjs-static-ecommerce-gatsby)
- [Michael Cereda's multi-part series of blog posts on building his site with Gatsby](https://medium.com/@michaelcereda/creating-an-isomorphic-universal-website-with-react-part-1-a905350acba8#.akoo25l6j)
- [Gatsby – Static Site Generator For React](https://codingthesmartway.com/gatsby-static-site-generater-for-react-introduction/)
- [Build your own blog CMS with Gatsby and Airtable](https://blog.airtable.com/build-your-own-custom-blog-cms-with-airtable-and-gatsbyjs/)
- [Gatsby JS Crash Course](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6YhqQ2ZW1sc)
- [How I made my portfolio website blazing fast with Gatsby](https://medium.freecodecamp.org/how-i-made-my-portfolio-website-blazing-fast-with-gatsby-82ccddc2f671)
- [JAMstack Basics: How to Create a Gatsby Starter with Contentful and Deploy to Netlify](https://itnext.io/jamstack-basics-how-to-create-a-gatsby-starter-with-contentful-and-deploy-to-netlify-846354cc74bc)
- [How to deploy a static Gatsby app to Heroku](https://medium.freecodecamp.org/how-to-deploy-a-static-gatsby-app-to-heroku-3362e3ecda0f)
- [A comprehensive guide to build your personal website using GatsbyJS and Ghost deployed on AWS](https://nishantdania.com/blog/guide-to-setup-ghost-gatsby-website)
- [Zero to Deploy: A Practical Guide to Static Sites with Gatsby.js](https://scotch.io/tutorials/zero-to-deploy-a-practical-guide-to-static-sites-with-gatsbyjs)
- [Build blazing fast web applications with Gatsby 101](https://gatsbyguides.com/)
- [Build a Coffee Shop Website w/ Gatsby, Contentful, SnipCard & Formspree](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAVhEPey_qA)
- [Why I used GatsbyJS](https://medium.com/@jameshunt.co/why-i-used-gatsbyjs-70bbb0f5c4a7)
- [Introducing Dashbored — Generate Static Dashboards Using Gatsby](https://medium.com/planes-agency/introducing-dashbored-62550a028fcc)
- [12 Factor Applications with GatsbyJS](https://medium.com/@wonderboymusic/12-factor-applications-with-gatsbyjs-ef8a2b1f883a)
- [Reading Data From A JSON File With Gatsby + GraphQL](https://itnext.io/reading-data-from-a-json-file-with-gatsby-graphql-572b18ab98a)
- [The Great Gatsby Bootcamp \[Full Course\] - Andrew Mead](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8t0vNu2fCCM)
- [Understanding the Gatsby lifecycle](https://medium.com/narative/understanding-gatsbys-lifecycle-31c473ba2f2d)
- [GatsbyGuides.com series on building web applications with Gatsby & Drupal](https://gatsbyguides.com/)
- [Deep dive into Gatsby – Building a static blog using Gatsby, React and GraphQL](https://zocada.com/deep-dive-gatsby-building-a-simple-static-blog-using-gatsby-react-and-graphql/)
- [Gatsby - Full Tutorial for Beginners](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mHFAM0CXviE)
- [Building a Video Blog with Gatsby and Markdown (MDX)](https://scotch.io/tutorials/building-a-video-blog-with-gatsby-and-markdown-mdx)
- [Deploying Your First Gatsby Site to Netlify](https://scotch.io/tutorials/deploying-your-first-gatsby-site-to-netlify)

### German

- [Ultra-schnellen Blog mit React und Gatsby erstellen (German)](https://www.lekoarts.de/blog/ultra-schnellen-blog-mit-react-und-gatsby-erstellen)
- [styled-components in Gatsby nutzen (German)](https://www.lekoarts.de/blog/styled-components-in-gatsby-nutzen)
- [Kategorien & Tags zu Gatsby hinzufügen (German)](https://www.lekoarts.de/blog/kategorien-tags-zu-gatsby-hinzufugen/)
- [Erstelle dein Design System mit Gatsby (German)](https://www.lekoarts.de/blog/erstelle-dein-design-system-mit-gatsby/)
- [Upgrade-Guide: Gatsby v2 (German)](https://www.lekoarts.de/blog/upgrade-guide-gatsby-v-2/)

### Russian

- [JAMstack: Как создать свой блог используя Gatsby + Contentful + Netlify (Russian)](https://habr.com/ru/post/439232/)
- [Gatsby.js в деталях (Russian)](https://habr.com/ru/post/442298/)

### Spanish

- [Construye y Publica Tu Blog Personal con Gatsby y Netlify (Spanish)](https://medium.com/@n370/construye-y-publica-tu-blog-personal-con-gatsby-y-netlify-parte-1-89804ba63625)

### Turkish

- [GatsbyJS ile Modern Web Sitesi | 1. Bölüm (Başlangıç ve Kurulum) (Turkish)](https://medium.com/@raufsamestone/reactjs-ve-gatsbyjs-ile-modern-web-sitesi-1-b%C3%B6l%C3%BCm-ba%C5%9Flang%C4%B1%C3%A7-ve-kurulum-27437d6aaf54)

### Ukrainian

- [JAMstack: створюємо блог з Gatsby + Contentful + Netlify (Ukrainian)](https://dou.ua/lenta/articles/creating-blog-with-jamstack/)
- [Детально про Gatsby.js — інструмент для створення складних веб-сайтів (Ukrainian)](https://dou.ua/lenta/articles/gatsbyjs-guide/)

## Other resources

### DEV Community

[The DEV Community Gatsby tag](https://dev.to/t/gatsbyjs) is a place to share Gatsby projects, articles and tutorials as well as start discussions and ask for feedback on Gatsby-related topics. Developers of all skill-levels are welcome to take part.

### Hashnode Community

[Gatsby community on Hashnode](https://hashnode.com/n/gatsby) is a place where you can read discussions about Gatsby projects, read articles and tutorials and ask the rest of the Hashnode community Gatsby-related questions.

### Reddit Community

[Gatsby community on Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/gatsbyjs) is a place where you can read news about Gatsby, interact with other Gatsby developers and get advice on Gatsby-related Questions.

### FreeCodeCamp Community

[The FreeCodeCamp News Gatsby tag](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/tag/gatsby/) is a place where you can write and read substantial articles around Gatsby-related topics.
