docs/docs/build-caching.md, before:

---
title: Build Caching
---

Plugins can cache data as JSON objects and retrieve them on consecutive builds.

Caching is already used by Gatsby and plugins for example:

- any nodes created by source/transformer plugins are cached
- `gatsby-plugin-sharp` caches built thumbnails

Data is stored in the `.cache` directory relative to your project root.

## The cache API

The cache API is passed to [Gatsby's Node APIs](/docs/node-apis/) which is typically implemented by plugins.

```js
exports.onPostBootstrap = async function({ cache, store, graphql }) {}
```

The two functions you would want to use are:

### `set`

Cache value

`cache.set(key: string, value: any) => Promise<any>`

### `get`

Retrieve cached value

`cache.get(key: string) => Promise<any>`

The [Node API helpers](/docs/node-api-helpers/#cache) documentation offers more detailed information on the API.

## Plugin Example

In your plugin's `gatsby-node.js` file, you can access the `cache` argument like so:

```js:title=gatsby-node.js
exports.onPostBuild = async function({ cache, store, graphql }, { query }) {
  const cacheKey = "some-key-name"
  let obj = await cache.get(cacheKey)

  if (!obj) {
    obj = { created: Date.now() }
    const data = await graphql(query)
    obj.data = data
  } else if (Date.now() > obj.lastChecked + 3600000) {
    /* Reload after a day */
    const data = await graphql(query)
    obj.data = data
  }

  obj.lastChecked = Date.now()

  await cache.set(cacheKey, obj)

  /* Do something with data ... */
}
```

## Clearing cache

Since cache files are stored within the `.cache` directory, simply deleting it will clear all cache. You can also use [`gatsby clean`](/docs/gatsby-cli/#clean) to delete the `.cache` and `public` folders.
The cache is also invalidated by Gatsby in a few cases, specifically:

- If `package.json` changes, for example a dependency is updated or added
- If `gatsby-config.js` changes, for example a plugin is added or modified
- If `gatsby-node.js` changes, for example if you invoke a new Node API, or change a `createPage` call

## Conclusion

With the cache API you're able to persist data between builds, which is really helpful while developing a site with Gatsby (as you re-run `gatsby develop` really often). Performance-heavy operations (like image transformations) or downloading data can slow down the bootstrap of Gatsby significantly and adding this optimization to your plugin can be a huge improvement to your end users. You can also have a look at the following examples who implemented the cache API: [gatsby-source-contentful](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/7f5b262d7b5323f1a387b8b7278d9a81ee227258/packages/gatsby-source-contentful/src/download-contentful-assets.js), [gatsby-source-shopify](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/7f5b262d7b5323f1a387b8b7278d9a81ee227258/packages/gatsby-source-shopify/src/nodes.js#L23-L54), [gatsby-source-wordpress](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/7f5b262d7b5323f1a387b8b7278d9a81ee227258/packages/gatsby-source-wordpress/src/normalize.js#L471-L537), [gatsby-transformer-remark](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/7f5b262d7b5323f1a387b8b7278d9a81ee227258/packages/gatsby-transformer-remark/src/extend-node-type.js), [gatsby-source-tmdb](https://github.com/LekoArts/gatsby-source-tmdb/blob/e12c19af5e7053bfb7737e072db9e24acfa77f49/src/add-local-image.js).

Commit message:

docs: Update build-caching.md to mention that build outputs are also in public (#20869)

docs/docs/build-caching.md, after:

---
title: Build Caching
---

Plugins can cache data as JSON objects and retrieve them on consecutive builds.

Caching is already used by Gatsby and plugins for example:

- any nodes created by source/transformer plugins are cached
- `gatsby-plugin-sharp` caches built thumbnails

Build outputs are stored in the `.cache` and `public` directories relative to your project root.

## The cache API

The cache API is passed to [Gatsby's Node APIs](/docs/node-apis/) which is typically implemented by plugins.

```js
exports.onPostBootstrap = async function({ cache, store, graphql }) {}
```

The two functions you would want to use are:

### `set`

Cache value

`cache.set(key: string, value: any) => Promise<any>`

### `get`

Retrieve cached value

`cache.get(key: string) => Promise<any>`

The [Node API helpers](/docs/node-api-helpers/#cache) documentation offers more detailed information on the API.

## Plugin Example

In your plugin's `gatsby-node.js` file, you can access the `cache` argument like so:

```js:title=gatsby-node.js
exports.onPostBuild = async function({ cache, store, graphql }, { query }) {
  const cacheKey = "some-key-name"
  let obj = await cache.get(cacheKey)

  if (!obj) {
    obj = { created: Date.now() }
    const data = await graphql(query)
    obj.data = data
  } else if (Date.now() > obj.lastChecked + 3600000) {
    /* Reload after a day */
    const data = await graphql(query)
    obj.data = data
  }

  obj.lastChecked = Date.now()

  await cache.set(cacheKey, obj)

  /* Do something with data ... */
}
```

## Clearing cache

Since cache files are stored within the `.cache` directory, simply deleting it will clear all cache. You can also use [`gatsby clean`](/docs/gatsby-cli/#clean) to delete the `.cache` and `public` folders.
The cache is also invalidated by Gatsby in a few cases, specifically:

- If `package.json` changes, for example a dependency is updated or added
- If `gatsby-config.js` changes, for example a plugin is added or modified
- If `gatsby-node.js` changes, for example if you invoke a new Node API, or change a `createPage` call

## Conclusion

With the cache API you're able to persist data between builds, which is really helpful while developing a site with Gatsby (as you re-run `gatsby develop` really often). Performance-heavy operations (like image transformations) or downloading data can slow down the bootstrap of Gatsby significantly and adding this optimization to your plugin can be a huge improvement to your end users. You can also have a look at the following examples who implemented the cache API: [gatsby-source-contentful](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/7f5b262d7b5323f1a387b8b7278d9a81ee227258/packages/gatsby-source-contentful/src/download-contentful-assets.js), [gatsby-source-shopify](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/7f5b262d7b5323f1a387b8b7278d9a81ee227258/packages/gatsby-source-shopify/src/nodes.js#L23-L54), [gatsby-source-wordpress](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/7f5b262d7b5323f1a387b8b7278d9a81ee227258/packages/gatsby-source-wordpress/src/normalize.js#L471-L537), [gatsby-transformer-remark](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/7f5b262d7b5323f1a387b8b7278d9a81ee227258/packages/gatsby-transformer-remark/src/extend-node-type.js), [gatsby-source-tmdb](https://github.com/LekoArts/gatsby-source-tmdb/blob/e12c19af5e7053bfb7737e072db9e24acfa77f49/src/add-local-image.js).
