docs/docs/gatsby-cli.md, before:

---
title: Commands (Gatsby CLI)
---

# gatsby-cli

The Gatsby command line tool (CLI) is the main entry point for getting up and running with a Gatsby application and for using functionality including like running a development server and building out your Gatsby application for deployment.

_We provide similar documentation available with the gatsby-cli [README](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/master/packages/gatsby-cli/README.md), and our [cheat sheet](/docs/cheat-sheet/) has all the top CLI commands ready to print out._

## How to use

The Gatsby CLI (`gatsby-cli`) is packaged as an executable that can be used globally. The Gatsby CLI is available via [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) and should be installed globally by running `npm install -g gatsby-cli` to use it locally.

Run `gatsby --help` for full help.

You can also use the `package.json` script variant of these commands, typically exposed _for you_ with most [starters](/docs/starters/). For example, if we want to make the [`gatsby develop`](#develop) command available in our application, we would open up `package.json` and add a script like so:

```json:title=package.json
{
  "scripts": {
    "develop": "gatsby develop"
  }
}
```

### `new`

`gatsby new gatsby-site`

See the [Gatsby starters docs](/docs/starters/)
for a comprehensive list of starters to get started with Gatsby.

### `develop`

Once you've installed a Gatsby site, go to the root directory of your project and start the development server:

`gatsby develop`

#### Options

|     Option      | Description                                     |
| :-------------: | ----------------------------------------------- |
| `-H`, `--host`  | Set host. Defaults to localhost                 |
| `-p`, `--port`  | Set port. Defaults to 8000                      |
| `-o`, `--open`  | Open the site in your (default) browser for you |
| `-S`, `--https` | Use HTTPS                                       |

Follow the [Local HTTPS guide](/docs/local-https/)
to find out how you can set up an HTTPS development server using Gatsby.

#### Preview changes on other devices

You can use the Gatsby develop command with the host option to access your dev environment on other devices on the same network, run:

```shell
gatsby develop -H 0.0.0.0
```

Then the terminal will log information as usual, but will additionally include a URL that you can navigate to from a client on the same network to see how the site renders.

```
You can now view gatsbyjs.org in the browser.
⠀
  Local:            http://0.0.0.0:8000/
  On Your Network:  http://192.168.0.212:8000/ // highlight-line
```

**Note**: you can't visit 0.0.0.0:8000 on Windows (but things will work using either localhost:8000 or the "On Your Network" URL on Windows)

### `build`

At the root of a Gatsby site, compile your application and make it ready for deployment:

`gatsby build`

#### Options

|            Option            | Description                                                                                               |
| :--------------------------: | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
|       `--prefix-paths`       | Build site with link paths prefixed (set pathPrefix in your config)                                       |
|        `--no-uglify`         | Build site without uglifying JS bundles (for debugging)                                                   |
| `--open-tracing-config-file` | Tracer configuration file (OpenTracing compatible). See [Performance Tracing](/docs/performance-tracing/) |
| `--no-color`, `--no-colors`  | Disables colored terminal output                                                                          |

### `serve`

At the root of a Gatsby site, serve the production build of your site for testing:

`gatsby serve`

#### Options

|      Option      | Description                                                                              |
| :--------------: | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
|  `-H`, `--host`  | Set host. Defaults to localhost                                                          |
|  `-p`, `--port`  | Set port. Defaults to 9000                                                               |
|  `-o`, `--open`  | Open the site in your (default) browser for you                                          |
| `--prefix-paths` | Serve site with link paths prefixed (if built with pathPrefix in your gatsby-config.js). |

### `info`

At the root of a Gatsby site, get helpful environment information which will be required when reporting a bug:

`gatsby info`

#### Options

|       Option        | Description                                             |
| :-----------------: | ------------------------------------------------------- |
| `-C`, `--clipboard` | Automagically copy environment information to clipboard |

### `clean`

At the root of a Gatsby site, wipe out the cache (`.cache` folder) and public directories:

`gatsby clean`

This is useful as a last resort when your local project seems to have issues or content does not seem to be refreshing. Issues this may fix commonly include:

- Stale data, e.g. this file/resource/etc. isn't appearing
- GraphQL error, e.g. this GraphQL resource should be present but is not
- Dependency issues, e.g. invalid version, cryptic errors in console, etc.
- Plugin issues, e.g. developing a local plugin and changes don't seem to be taking effect

### `plugin`

Run commands pertaining to gatsby plugins.

#### `docs`

`gatsby plugin docs`

Directs you to documentation about using and creating plugins.

### Repl

Get a Node.js REPL (interactive shell) with context of your Gatsby environment:

`gatsby repl`

Gatsby will prompt you to type in commands and explore. When it shows this: `gatsby >`

You can type in a command, such as one of these:

`babelrc`

`components`

`dataPaths`

`getNodes()`

`nodes`

`pages`

`schema`

`siteConfig`

`staticQueries`

When combined with the [GraphQL explorer](/docs/introducing-graphiql/), these REPL commands could be very helpful for understanding your Gatsby site's data.

See the Gatsby REPL documentation [here](/docs/gatsby-repl/).

### Disabling colored output

In addition to the explicit `--no-color` option, the CLI respects the presence of the `NO_COLOR` environment variable (see [no-color.org](https://no-color.org/)).

Commit message:

Docs: add details about the CI environment variable available to gatsby build for dumb terminals (#17966)
* clarify environment variables available to gatsby build

* grammar

docs/docs/gatsby-cli.md, after:

---
title: Commands (Gatsby CLI)
---

# gatsby-cli

The Gatsby command line tool (CLI) is the main entry point for getting up and running with a Gatsby application and for using functionality including like running a development server and building out your Gatsby application for deployment.

_We provide similar documentation available with the gatsby-cli [README](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/master/packages/gatsby-cli/README.md), and our [cheat sheet](/docs/cheat-sheet/) has all the top CLI commands ready to print out._

## How to use

The Gatsby CLI (`gatsby-cli`) is packaged as an executable that can be used globally. The Gatsby CLI is available via [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) and should be installed globally by running `npm install -g gatsby-cli` to use it locally.

Run `gatsby --help` for full help.

You can also use the `package.json` script variant of these commands, typically exposed _for you_ with most [starters](/docs/starters/). For example, if we want to make the [`gatsby develop`](#develop) command available in our application, we would open up `package.json` and add a script like so:

```json:title=package.json
{
  "scripts": {
    "develop": "gatsby develop"
  }
}
```

### `new`

`gatsby new gatsby-site`

See the [Gatsby starters docs](/docs/starters/)
for a comprehensive list of starters to get started with Gatsby.

### `develop`

Once you've installed a Gatsby site, go to the root directory of your project and start the development server:

`gatsby develop`

#### Options

|     Option      | Description                                     |
| :-------------: | ----------------------------------------------- |
| `-H`, `--host`  | Set host. Defaults to localhost                 |
| `-p`, `--port`  | Set port. Defaults to 8000                      |
| `-o`, `--open`  | Open the site in your (default) browser for you |
| `-S`, `--https` | Use HTTPS                                       |

Follow the [Local HTTPS guide](/docs/local-https/)
to find out how you can set up an HTTPS development server using Gatsby.

#### Preview changes on other devices

You can use the Gatsby develop command with the host option to access your dev environment on other devices on the same network, run:

```shell
gatsby develop -H 0.0.0.0
```

Then the terminal will log information as usual, but will additionally include a URL that you can navigate to from a client on the same network to see how the site renders.

```
You can now view gatsbyjs.org in the browser.
⠀
  Local:            http://0.0.0.0:8000/
  On Your Network:  http://192.168.0.212:8000/ // highlight-line
```

**Note**: you can't visit 0.0.0.0:8000 on Windows (but things will work using either localhost:8000 or the "On Your Network" URL on Windows)

### `build`

At the root of a Gatsby site, compile your application and make it ready for deployment:

`gatsby build`

#### Options

|            Option            | Description                                                                                               |
| :--------------------------: | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
|       `--prefix-paths`       | Build site with link paths prefixed (set pathPrefix in your config)                                       |
|        `--no-uglify`         | Build site without uglifying JS bundles (for debugging)                                                   |
| `--open-tracing-config-file` | Tracer configuration file (OpenTracing compatible). See [Performance Tracing](/docs/performance-tracing/) |
| `--no-color`, `--no-colors`  | Disables colored terminal output                                                                          |

In addition to these build options, there are some optional [build environment variables](/docs/environment-variables/#build-variables) for more advanced configurations that can adjust how a build runs. For example, setting `CI=true` as an environment variable will tailor output for [dumb terminals](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_terminal#Dumb_terminals).

### `serve`

At the root of a Gatsby site, serve the production build of your site for testing:

`gatsby serve`

#### Options

|      Option      | Description                                                                              |
| :--------------: | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
|  `-H`, `--host`  | Set host. Defaults to localhost                                                          |
|  `-p`, `--port`  | Set port. Defaults to 9000                                                               |
|  `-o`, `--open`  | Open the site in your (default) browser for you                                          |
| `--prefix-paths` | Serve site with link paths prefixed (if built with pathPrefix in your gatsby-config.js). |

### `info`

At the root of a Gatsby site, get helpful environment information which will be required when reporting a bug:

`gatsby info`

#### Options

|       Option        | Description                                             |
| :-----------------: | ------------------------------------------------------- |
| `-C`, `--clipboard` | Automagically copy environment information to clipboard |

### `clean`

At the root of a Gatsby site, wipe out the cache (`.cache` folder) and public directories:

`gatsby clean`

This is useful as a last resort when your local project seems to have issues or content does not seem to be refreshing. Issues this may fix commonly include:

- Stale data, e.g. this file/resource/etc. isn't appearing
- GraphQL error, e.g. this GraphQL resource should be present but is not
- Dependency issues, e.g. invalid version, cryptic errors in console, etc.
- Plugin issues, e.g. developing a local plugin and changes don't seem to be taking effect

### `plugin`

Run commands pertaining to gatsby plugins.

#### `docs`

`gatsby plugin docs`

Directs you to documentation about using and creating plugins.

### Repl

Get a Node.js REPL (interactive shell) with context of your Gatsby environment:

`gatsby repl`

Gatsby will prompt you to type in commands and explore. When it shows this: `gatsby >`

You can type in a command, such as one of these:

`babelrc`

`components`

`dataPaths`

`getNodes()`

`nodes`

`pages`

`schema`

`siteConfig`

`staticQueries`

When combined with the [GraphQL explorer](/docs/introducing-graphiql/), these REPL commands could be very helpful for understanding your Gatsby site's data.

See the Gatsby REPL documentation [here](/docs/gatsby-repl/).

### Disabling colored output

In addition to the explicit `--no-color` option, the CLI respects the presence of the `NO_COLOR` environment variable (see [no-color.org](https://no-color.org/)).
