docs/docs/gatsby-on-windows.md, before:

---
title: Gatsby on Windows
---

## Setting up your environment for building native Node.js modules.

Many Gatsby plugins and themes require building native Node.js modules, e.g.
[Sharp (a common Gatsby dependency used for image processing)](/packages/gatsby-plugin-sharp/).
To do so, you need a functional build environment (Python and Visual C++ Build
Tools).

The easy way to setup your build environment on Windows is to install the
[`windows-build-tools`](https://github.com/felixrieseberg/windows-build-tools)
package by running `npm install windows-build-tools -g` on an admin PowerShell
console. Upon installing this package, it downloads and installs the Visual C++
Build Tools 2015, provided free of charge by Microsoft. These tools are required
to compile popular native modules. It will also install Python 2.7, configuring
your machine and npm appropriately.

If your `windows-build-tools` installation stalls after Visual Studio Build Tools finishes, [this remedy](https://github.com/felixrieseberg/windows-build-tools/issues/47#issuecomment-296881488) might help.

### If `npm install` still fails...

Sometimes the `windows-build-tools` won't properly install the required
libraries. This is true if you already have a regular .NET development
environment setup. This has been reported on Windows 10 x64 (and possibly other
architectures or Windows versions).

This might be your problem if, after running `npm install` on a Gatsby site, you
see compilation errors such as `node-gyp` or `sharp` or `binding.gyp not found`.

If you suspect this is your problem, download the
[Visual Studio Community 2015 Package](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=532606&clcid=0x409)
and install only the part of the package that interests us : `Programming languages > Visual C++ > Common tools for Visual Studio 2015`. Be sure to
download the 2015 version of VS Community, not the 2017 version (see Note 1
below) ; you'll have to use the
[search bar on the VS site](https://www.visualstudio.com/products/visual-studio-community-vs)
to find it. You can uncheck everything else. You don't need to install the full
VS2015 Express on your system and this won't mess up your existing VS201x
installs.

![Common tools for Visual Studio 2015 inside the VS 2015 Community Package](https://i.stack.imgur.com/J1aet.png)

Then run the commands on Gatsby:

```powershell
npm uninstall node-gyp -g
npm config set python python2.7
npm config set msvs_version 2015
npm cache clean -f
npm install
```

You should then be all set.

If that still doesn't work, refer to the
[`node-gyp` npm package homepage](https://www.npmjs.com/package/node-gyp) for
further instructions and contact the `node-gyp`team on
[GitHub](https://github.com/nodejs/node-gyp/issues).

Note 1 : the Visual Studio Community 2017 surely contains the package too but we
weren't able to find it. If you found it, run `npm config set msvs_version 2017`
instead and report it here with a screenshot!

Commit message:

Also point to download page and update description

docs/docs/gatsby-on-windows.md, after:

---
title: Gatsby on Windows
---

## Setting up your environment for building native Node.js modules.

Many Gatsby plugins and themes require building native Node.js modules, e.g.
[Sharp (a common Gatsby dependency used for image processing)](/packages/gatsby-plugin-sharp/).
To do so, you need a functional build environment (Python and Visual C++ Build
Tools).

The easy way to setup your build environment on Windows is to install the
[`windows-build-tools`](https://github.com/felixrieseberg/windows-build-tools)
package by running `npm install windows-build-tools -g` on an admin PowerShell
console. Upon installing this package, it downloads and installs the Visual C++
Build Tools 2015, provided free of charge by Microsoft. These tools are required
to compile popular native modules. It will also install Python 2.7, configuring
your machine and npm appropriately.

If your `windows-build-tools` installation stalls after Visual Studio Build Tools finishes, [this remedy](https://github.com/felixrieseberg/windows-build-tools/issues/47#issuecomment-296881488) might help.

### If `npm install` still fails...

Sometimes the `windows-build-tools` won't properly install the required
libraries. This is true if you already have a regular .NET development
environment setup. This has been reported on Windows 10 x64 (and possibly other
architectures or Windows versions).

This might be your problem if, after running `npm install` on a Gatsby site, you
see compilation errors such as `node-gyp` or `sharp` or `binding.gyp not found`.

If you suspect this is your problem, download the
[Visual Studio Community 2015 Package](https://www.visualstudio.com/vs/older-downloads/) (also available from this [direct download link](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=532606&clcid=0x409))
and install only the part of the package that interests us : `Programming languages > Visual C++ > Common tools for Visual Studio 2015`. Be sure to
download the 2015 version of VS Community, not the 2017 version (see Note 1
below). You can uncheck everything else. You don't need to install the full
VS2015 Express on your system and this won't mess up your existing VS201x
installs.

![Common tools for Visual Studio 2015 inside the VS 2015 Community Package](https://i.stack.imgur.com/J1aet.png)

Then run the commands on Gatsby:

```powershell
npm uninstall node-gyp -g
npm config set python python2.7
npm config set msvs_version 2015
npm cache clean -f
npm install
```

You should then be all set.

If that still doesn't work, refer to the
[`node-gyp` npm package homepage](https://www.npmjs.com/package/node-gyp) for
further instructions and contact the `node-gyp`team on
[GitHub](https://github.com/nodejs/node-gyp/issues).

Note 1 : the Visual Studio Community 2017 surely contains the package too but we
weren't able to find it. If you found it, run `npm config set msvs_version 2017`
instead and report it here with a screenshot!
