docs/docs/gatsby-on-linux.md, before:

---
title: Gatsby on Linux
---

This guide assumes you already have a native installation of Linux on your machine. The following steps walk through how to install Node.js and associated dependencies.

## Ubuntu, Debian, and other `apt` based distros

Begin by updating and upgrading.

```shell
sudo apt update
sudo apt -y upgrade
```

Install curl which allows you to transfer data and download additional dependencies.

```shell
sudo apt install curl
```

Once `curl` is installed, you can use it to install `nvm`, which will manage `node` and all its associated versions.

```shell
curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.35.1/install.sh | bash
```

> Note that this is the current stable release of nvm. Full installation instructions and troubleshooting can be found at the [nvm GitHub page](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm)

When `nvm` is installed, it does not default to a particular `node` version. You'll need to install the version you want and give `nvm` instructions to use it. This example uses the latest release of version `10`, but more recent version numbers can be used instead.

```shell
nvm install 10
nvm use 10
```

To confirm this has worked, use the following command.

```shell
node -v
```

> Note that `npm` comes packaged with `node`

Finally, install `git` which will be necessary for creating your first Gatsby project based on a starter.

```shell
sudo apt install git
```

## Fedora, RedHat, and other `dnf` based distros

These distros come installed with `curl`, so you can use that to download `nvm`.

```shell
curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.35.1/install.sh | bash
```

> Note that this is the current stable release of nvm. Full installation instructions and troubleshooting can be found at the [nvm GitHub page](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm)

When `nvm` is installed, it does not default to a particular `node` version. You'll need to install the version you want and give `nvm` instructions to use it. This example uses the latest release of version `10`, but more recent version numbers can be used instead.

```shell
nvm install 10
nvm use 10
```

To confirm this has worked, use the following command.

```shell
node -v
```

> Note that `npm` comes packaged with `node`

Finally, install `git` which will be necessary for creating your first Gatsby project based on a starter.

```shell
sudo dnf install git
```

## Archlinux and other `pacman` based distros

Begin by updating.

```shell
sudo pacman -Sy
```

These distros come installed with `curl`, so you can use that to download `nvm`.

```shell
curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.35.1/install.sh | bash
```

> Note that this is the current stable release of nvm. Full installation instructions and troubleshooting can be found at the [nvm GitHub page](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm)

Before using `nvm`, you need to install additional dependencies.

```shell
sudo pacman -S grep awk tar git
```

When `nvm` is installed, it does not default to a particular `node` version. You'll need to install the version you want and give `nvm` instructions to use it. This example uses the latest release of version `10`, but more recent version numbers can be used instead.

```shell
nvm install 10
nvm use 10
```

To confirm this has worked, use the following command.

```shell
node -v
```

> Note that `npm` comes packaged with `node`

## Windows Subsystem Linux (WSL)

This guide assumes that you already have WSL installed with a working Linux distro. If you don't, follow [this guide from Microsoft's site](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10) to install WSL and a Linux distro of your choice.

As of October 17th 2017, Windows 10 ships with WSL and Linux distributions are available via the [Windows Store], there are several different distributions to use which can be configured via `wslconfig` if you have more than one distribution installed.

```shell
# set default distribution to Ubuntu
wslconfig /setdefault ubuntu
```

### Using Windows Subsystem Linux: Ubuntu

If you have a fresh install of Ubuntu then update and upgrade:

```shell
sudo apt update
sudo apt -y upgrade
```

**Build tools**

To compile and install native addons from npm you may also need to install build tools for `node-gyp`:

```shell
sudo apt install -y build-essential
```

**Install node**

Following the install instructions on nodejs.org leaves a slightly broken install (i.e. permission errors when trying to `npm install`). Instead try installing node versions using [n] which you can install with [n-install]:

```shell
curl -L https://git.io/n-install | bash
```

There are other alternatives for managing your node versions such as [nvm] but this is known to slow down [bash startup] on WSL.

### Using Windows Subsystem Linux: Debian

Debian setup is nearly identical to Ubuntu except for the additional installs of `git` and `libpng-dev`.

Begin by updating and upgrading.

```shell
sudo apt update
sudo apt -y upgrade
```

Additional dependencies need to be installed as well. `build-essential` is a package that allows other packages to compile to a Debian package. `git` installs a package to work with version control. `linbpng-dev` installs a package that allows the project to manipulate images.

```shell
sudo apt install build-essential
sudo apt install git
sudo apt install libpng-dev
```

Or to install all at the same time and approve `(y)` all installs:

```shell
sudo apt update && sudo apt -y upgrade && sudo apt install build-essential && sudo apt install git && sudo apt install libpng-dev
```

### Additional links and resources

- [Super detailed guide to making VSCode work with ESL from VSCode's docs website](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/wsl)
- [Windows store page for downloading Ubuntu on Windows](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/p/ubuntu/9nblggh4msv6)
- [n](https://github.com/tj/n)
- [nvm](https://github.com/creationix/nvm)
- [n-install](https://github.com/mklement0/n-install)
- [bash startup](https://github.com/Microsoft/WSL/issues/776#issuecomment-266112578)

Commit message:

fix(docs): brand names linux pages, add hint about rebuilding dependencies (#20075)
* fix brand names and note about rebuilding

* add slash to link

docs/docs/gatsby-on-linux.md, after:

---
title: Gatsby on Linux
---

This guide assumes you already have a native installation of Linux on your machine. The following steps walk through how to install Node.js and associated dependencies.

## Ubuntu, Debian, and other `apt` based distros

Begin by updating and upgrading.

```shell
sudo apt update
sudo apt -y upgrade
```

Install cURL which allows you to transfer data and download additional dependencies.

```shell
sudo apt install curl
```

Once `curl` is installed, you can use it to install `nvm`, which will manage `node` and all its associated versions.

```shell
curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.35.1/install.sh | bash
```

> Note that this is the current stable release of nvm. Full installation instructions and troubleshooting can be found at the [nvm GitHub page](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm)

When `nvm` is installed, it does not default to a particular `node` version. You'll need to install the version you want and give `nvm` instructions to use it. This example uses the latest release of version `10`, but more recent version numbers can be used instead.

```shell
nvm install 10
nvm use 10
```

To confirm this has worked, use the following command.

```shell
node -v
```

> Note that `npm` comes packaged with `node`

Finally, install `git` which will be necessary for creating your first Gatsby project based on a starter.

```shell
sudo apt install git
```

## Fedora, RedHat, and other `dnf` based distros

These distros come installed with `curl`, so you can use that to download `nvm`.

```shell
curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.35.1/install.sh | bash
```

> Note that this is the current stable release of nvm. Full installation instructions and troubleshooting can be found at the [nvm GitHub page](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm)

When `nvm` is installed, it does not default to a particular `node` version. You'll need to install the version you want and give `nvm` instructions to use it. This example uses the latest release of version `10`, but more recent version numbers can be used instead.

```shell
nvm install 10
nvm use 10
```

To confirm this has worked, use the following command.

```shell
node -v
```

> Note that `npm` comes packaged with `node`

Finally, install `git` which will be necessary for creating your first Gatsby project based on a starter.

```shell
sudo dnf install git
```

## Archlinux and other `pacman` based distros

Begin by updating.

```shell
sudo pacman -Sy
```

These distros come installed with `curl`, so you can use that to download `nvm`.

```shell
curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.35.1/install.sh | bash
```

> Note that this is the current stable release of nvm. Full installation instructions and troubleshooting can be found at the [nvm GitHub page](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm)

Before using `nvm`, you need to install additional dependencies.

```shell
sudo pacman -S grep awk tar git
```

When `nvm` is installed, it does not default to a particular `node` version. You'll need to install the version you want and give `nvm` instructions to use it. This example uses the latest release of version `10`, but more recent version numbers can be used instead.

```shell
nvm install 10
nvm use 10
```

To confirm this has worked, use the following command.

```shell
node -v
```

> Note that `npm` comes packaged with `node`

## Windows Subsystem Linux (WSL)

This guide assumes that you already have WSL installed with a working Linux distro. If you don't, follow [this guide from Microsoft's site](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10) to install WSL and a Linux distro of your choice.

As of October 17th 2017, Windows 10 ships with WSL and Linux distributions are available via the Microsoft Store, there are several different distributions to use which can be configured via `wslconfig` if you have more than one distribution installed.

```shell
# set default distribution to Ubuntu
wslconfig /setdefault ubuntu
```

> Please note that if you have used the [Gatsby on Windows](/docs/gatsby-on-windows/) setup without WSL, then you have to delete any existing `node_modules` folder in your project and re-install the dependencies in your WSL environment.

### Using Windows Subsystem Linux: Ubuntu

If you have a fresh install of Ubuntu then update and upgrade:

```shell
sudo apt update
sudo apt -y upgrade
```

**Build tools**

To compile and install native addons from npm you may also need to install build tools for `node-gyp`:

```shell
sudo apt install -y build-essential
```

**Install node**

Following the install instructions on nodejs.org leaves a slightly broken install (i.e. permission errors when trying to `npm install`). Instead try installing node versions using [n] which you can install with [n-install]:

```shell
curl -L https://git.io/n-install | bash
```

There are other alternatives for managing your node versions such as [nvm] but this is known to slow down [bash startup] on WSL.

### Using Windows Subsystem Linux: Debian

Debian setup is nearly identical to Ubuntu except for the additional installs of `git` and `libpng-dev`.

Begin by updating and upgrading.

```shell
sudo apt update
sudo apt -y upgrade
```

Additional dependencies need to be installed as well. `build-essential` is a package that allows other packages to compile to a Debian package. `git` installs a package to work with version control. `linbpng-dev` installs a package that allows the project to manipulate images.

```shell
sudo apt install build-essential
sudo apt install git
sudo apt install libpng-dev
```

Or to install all at the same time and approve `(y)` all installs:

```shell
sudo apt update && sudo apt -y upgrade && sudo apt install build-essential && sudo apt install git && sudo apt install libpng-dev
```

### Additional links and resources

- [Super detailed guide to making VSCode work with ESL from VSCode's docs website](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/wsl)
- [Microsoft Store page for downloading Ubuntu on Windows](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/p/ubuntu/9nblggh4msv6)
- [n](https://github.com/tj/n)
- [nvm](https://github.com/creationix/nvm)
- [n-install](https://github.com/mklement0/n-install)
- [bash startup](https://github.com/Microsoft/WSL/issues/776#issuecomment-266112578)
