docs/docs/gatsby-image.md, before:

---
title: Gatsby Image API
---

Part of what makes Gatsby sites so fast is its recommended approach to handling images. `gatsby-image` is a React component designed to work seamlessly with Gatsby’s [native image processing](https://image-processing.gatsbyjs.org/) capabilities powered by GraphQL and [gatsby-plugin-sharp](/packages/gatsby-plugin-sharp/) to easily and completely optimize image loading for your sites.

> _Note: gatsby-image is **not** a drop-in replacement for `<img />`. It’s optimized for responsive fixed width/height images and images that stretch the full-width of a container. There are also other ways to [work with images](/docs/images-and-files/) in Gatsby that don't require GraphQL._

Demo: [https://using-gatsby-image.gatsbyjs.org/](https://using-gatsby-image.gatsbyjs.org/)

## In this doc

- [Setting up Gatsby Image](#setting-up-gatsby-image)
- [Types of images with gatsby-image](#types-of-images-with-gatsby-image)
  - [Fixed images and parameters](#images-with-a-fixed-width-and-height)
  - [Fluid images and parameters](#images-that-stretch-across-a-fluid-container)
  - [Resized images](#resized-images)
  - [Shared query parameters](#shared-query-parameters)
- [Image query fragments](#image-query-fragments)
- [Gatsby Image props](#gatsby-image-props)

## Setting up Gatsby Image

To start working with Gatsby Image, install the `gatsby-image` package along with necessary plugins `gatsby-transformer-sharp` and `gatsby-plugin-sharp`. Reference the packages in your `gatsby-config.js` file. You can also provide additional options to [`gatsby-plugin-sharp`](/packages/gatsby-plugin-sharp/) in your config file.

A common way to source images is to install and use `gatsby-source-filesystem` to connect your local files, but other source plugins can be used as well, such as `gatsby-source-contentful`, `gatsby-source-datocms` and `gatsby-source-sanity`.

```bash
npm install --save gatsby-image gatsby-plugin-sharp gatsby-transformer-sharp
```

```js:title=gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    `gatsby-transformer-sharp`,
    `gatsby-plugin-sharp`,
    {
      resolve: `gatsby-source-filesystem`,
      options: {
        path: `${__dirname}/src/data/`,
      },
    },
  ],
}
```

_For in-depth install instructions, check out the docs on [Using Gatsby Image](/docs/using-gatsby-image/)._

### Gatsby image starts with a query

To feed file data in to Gatsby Image, set up a [GraphQL query](/docs/graphql-reference/) and either pass it into a component as props or write it directly in the component. One technique is to leverage the [`useStaticQuery`](/docs/use-static-query/) hook.

Common GraphQL queries for sourcing images include `file` from [gatsby-source-filesystem](/packages/gatsby-source-filesystem/), and both `imageSharp` and `allImageSharp` from [gatsby-plugin-sharp](/packages/gatsby-plugin-sharp/), but ultimately the options available to you will depend on your content sources.

> Note: you can also use [GraphQL aliases](/docs/graphql-reference/#aliasing) for querying multiple images of the same type.

See below for code examples of queries and how to use them in components.

## Types of images with `gatsby-image`

Gatsby image objects are created through GraphQL methods. There are two types of image optimizations available, _fixed_ and _fluid_, which create multiple image sizes (1x, 1.5x, etc.). There is also the _resize_ method, which returns a single image.

### Images with a _fixed_ width and height

Automatically create images for different resolutions at a set width or height — Gatsby creates responsive images for 1x, 1.5x, and 2x pixel densities using the `<picture>` element.

Once you've queried for a `fixed` image to retrieve its data, you can pass that data into the `Img` component:

```jsx
import { useStaticQuery, graphql } from "gatsby"
import Img from "gatsby-image"

export default () => {
  const data = useStaticQuery(graphql`
    query {
      file(relativePath: { eq: "images/default.jpg" }) {
        childImageSharp {
          # Specify a fixed image and fragment.
          # The default width is 400 pixels
          // highlight-start
          fixed {
            ...GatsbyImageSharpFixed
          }
          // highlight-end
        }
      }
    }
  `)
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Hello gatsby-image</h1>
      <Img
        fixed={data.file.childImageSharp.fixed} {/* highlight-line */}
        alt="Gatsby Docs are awesome"
      />
    </div>
  )
}
```

#### Fixed image query parameters

In a query, you can specify options for fixed images.

- `width` (int, default: 400)
- `height` (int)
- `quality` (int, default: 50)

#### Returns

- `base64` (string)
- `aspectRatio` (float)
- `width` (float)
- `height` (float)
- `src` (string)
- `srcSet` (string)

This is where fragments like `GatsbyImageSharpFixed` come in handy, as they'll return all the above items in one line without having to type them all out:

```graphql
file(relativePath: { eq: "images/default.jpg" }) {
  childImageSharp {
    // highlight-start
    fixed(width: 400, height: 400) {
      ...GatsbyImageSharpFixed
      // highlight-end
    }
  }
}
```

Read more in the [gatsby-plugin-sharp](/packages/gatsby-plugin-sharp/?=#fixed) README.

### Images that stretch across a _fluid_ container

Create flexible sizes for an image that stretches to fill its container. E.g. for a container whose max width is 800px, the automatic sizes would be: 200px, 400px, 800px, 1200px and 1600px – enough to provide close to the optimal image size for every device size / screen resolution. If you want more control over which sizes are output you can use the `srcSetBreakpoints` parameter.

Once you've queried for a `fluid` image to retrieve its data, you can pass that data into the `Img` component:

```jsx
import { useStaticQuery, graphql } from "gatsby"
import Img from "gatsby-image"

export default () => {
  const data = useStaticQuery(graphql`
    query {
      file(relativePath: { eq: "images/default.jpg" }) {
        childImageSharp {
          # Specify a fluid image and fragment
          # The default maxWidth is 800 pixels
          // highlight-start
          fluid {
            ...GatsbyImageSharpFluid
          }
          // highlight-end
        }
      }
    }
  `)
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Hello gatsby-image</h1>
      <Img
        fluid={data.file.childImageSharp.fluid} {/* highlight-line */}
        alt="Gatsby Docs are awesome"
      />
    </div>
  )
}
```

#### Fluid image query parameters

In a query, you can specify options for fluid images.

- `maxWidth` (int, default: 800)
- `maxHeight`(int)
- `quality` (int, default: 50)
- `srcSetBreakpoints` (array of int, default: [])
- `fit` (string, default: `[sharp.fit.cover][6]`)
- `background` (string, default: `rgba(0,0,0,1)`)

#### Returns

- `base64` (string)
- `src` (string)
- `width` (int)
- `height` (int)
- `aspectRatio` (float)
- `src` (string)
- `srcSet` (string)

This is where fragments like `GatsbyImageSharpFluid` come in handy, as they'll return all the above items in one line without having to type them all out:

```graphql
file(relativePath: { eq: "images/default.jpg" }) {
  childImageSharp {
    // highlight-start
    fluid(maxWidth: 400) {
      ...GatsbyImageSharpFluid
      // highlight-end
    }
  }
}
```

Read more in the [gatsby-plugin-sharp](/packages/gatsby-plugin-sharp/?=#fluid) README.

### Resized images

In addition to _fixed_ and _fluid_ images, the gatsby-image API allows you to call a `resize` method with `gatsby-plugin-sharp` to return a single image as opposed to multiple sizes. There are no default fragments available for the resize method.

#### Parameters

- `width` (int, default: 400)
- `height` (int)
- `quality` (int, default: 50)
- `jpegProgressive` (bool, default: true)
- `pngCompressionLevel` (int, default: 9)
- `base64`(bool, default: false)

#### Returns

Resize returns an object with the following items:

- `src` (string)
- `width` (int)
- `height` (int)
- `aspectRatio` (float)

```graphql
allImageSharp {
  edges {
    node {
        resize(width: 150, height: 150, grayscale: true) {
          src
        }
    }
  }
}
```

### Shared query parameters

In addition to `gatsby-plugin-sharp` settings in `gatsby-config.js`, there are additional query options that apply to both _fluid_ and _fixed_ images:

- `grayscale` (bool, default: false)
- `duotone` (bool|obj, default: false)
- `toFormat` (string, default: \`\`)
- `cropFocus` (string, default: `[sharp.strategy.attention][6]`)
- `pngCompressionSpeed` (int, default: 4)

Here's an example of using the `duotone` option with a fixed image:

```graphql
fixed(
  width: 800,
  duotone: {
    highlight: "#f00e2e",
    shadow: "#192550"
  }
)
```

<figure>
  <img
    alt="Jay Gatsby holding wine class in normal color and duotone."
    src="./images/duotone-before-after.png"
  />
  <figcaption>Duotone | Before - After</figcaption>
</figure>

And an example of using the `grayscale` option with a fixed image:

```graphql
fixed(
  grayscale: true
)
```

<figure>
  <img
    alt="Jay Gatsby holding wine class in normal color and duotone."
    src="./images/grayscale-before-after.png"
  />
  <figcaption>Grayscale | Before - After</figcaption>
</figure>

Read more in the [`gatsby-plugin-sharp`](/packages/gatsby-plugin-sharp) README.

## Image query fragments

GraphQL includes a concept called "query fragments", which are a part of a query that can be reused. To ease building with `gatsby-image`, Gatsby image processing plugins which support `gatsby-image` ship with fragments which you can easily include in your queries.

> Note: using fragments in your queries depends on which data source(s) you have configured. Read more in the [gatsby-image](/packages/gatsby-image#fragments) README.

### Common fragments with `gatsby-transformer-sharp`

#### Fixed images

- `GatsbyImageSharpFixed`
- `GatsbyImageSharpFixed_noBase64`
- `GatsbyImageSharpFixed_tracedSVG`
- `GatsbyImageSharpFixed_withWebp`
- `GatsbyImageSharpFixed_withWebp_noBase64`
- `GatsbyImageSharpFixed_withWebp_tracedSVG`

#### Fluid images

- `GatsbyImageSharpFluid`
- `GatsbyImageSharpFluid_noBase64`
- `GatsbyImageSharpFluid_tracedSVG`
- `GatsbyImageSharpFluid_withWebp`
- `GatsbyImageSharpFluid_withWebp_noBase64`
- `GatsbyImageSharpFluid_withWebp_tracedSVG`

#### About `noBase64`

If you don't want to use the [blur-up effect](https://using-gatsby-image.gatsbyjs.org/blur-up/), choose the fragment with `noBase64` at the end.

#### About `tracedSVG`

If you want to use the [traced placeholder SVGs](https://using-gatsby-image.gatsbyjs.org/traced-svg/), choose the fragment with `tracedSVG` at the end.

#### About `withWebP`

If you want to automatically use [WebP images](https://developers.google.com/speed/webp/) when the browser supports the file format, use the `withWebp` fragments. If the browser doesn't support WebP, `gatsby-image` will fall back to the default image format.

Here's an example of using a non-default fragment from `gatsby-transformer-sharp`. Be sure to pick one that matches your desired image type (_fixed_ or _fluid_):

```graphql
file(relativePath: { eq: "images/default.jpg" }) {
  childImageSharp {
    fluid {
      // highlight-next-line
      ...GatsbyImageSharpFluid_tracedSVG
    }
  }
}
```

For more info on how these options work, check out the Gatsby Image demo: [https://using-gatsby-image.gatsbyjs.org/](https://using-gatsby-image.gatsbyjs.org/)

#### Additional plugin fragments

Additionally, plugins supporting `gatsby-image` currently include [gatsby-source-contentful](/packages/gatsby-source-contentful/), [gatsby-source-datocms](https://github.com/datocms/gatsby-source-datocms) and [gatsby-source-sanity](https://github.com/sanity-io/gatsby-source-sanity). See the [gatsby-image](/packages/gatsby-image/#fragments) README for more details.

## Gatsby-image props

After you've made a query, you can pass additional options to the gatsby-image component.

| Name                   | Type                | Description                                                                                                                   |
| ---------------------- | ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `fixed`                | `object`            | Data returned from the `fixed` query                                                                                          |
| `fluid`                | `object`            | Data returned from the `fluid` query                                                                                          |
| `fadeIn`               | `bool`              | Defaults to fading in the image on load                                                                                       |
| `durationFadeIn`       | `number`            | fade-in duration is set up to 500ms by default                                                                                |
| `title`                | `string`            | Passed to the rendered HTML `img` element                                                                                     |
| `alt`                  | `string`            | Passed to the rendered HTML `img` element. Defaults to an empty string, e.g. `alt=""`                                         |
| `crossOrigin`          | `string`            | Passed to the rendered HTML `img` element                                                                                     |
| `className`            | `string` / `object` | Passed to the wrapper element. Object is needed to support Glamor's css prop                                                  |
| `style`                | `object`            | Spread into the default styles of the wrapper element                                                                         |
| `imgStyle`             | `object`            | Spread into the default styles of the actual `img` element                                                                    |
| `placeholderStyle`     | `object`            | Spread into the default styles of the placeholder `img` element                                                               |
| `placeholderClassName` | `string`            | A class that is passed to the placeholder `img` element                                                                       |
| `backgroundColor`      | `string` / `bool`   | Set a colored background placeholder. If true, uses "lightgray" for the color. You can also pass in any valid color string.   |
| `onLoad`               | `func`              | A callback that is called when the full-size image has loaded.                                                                |
| `onStartLoad`          | `func`              | A callback that is called when the full-size image starts loading, it gets the parameter `{ wasCached: <boolean> }` provided. |
| `onError`              | `func`              | A callback that is called when the image fails to load.                                                                       |
| `Tag`                  | `string`            | Which HTML tag to use for wrapping elements. Defaults to `div`.                                                               |
| `objectFit`            | `string`            | Passed to the `object-fit-images` polyfill when importing from `gatsby-image/withIEPolyfill`. Defaults to `cover`.            |
| `objectPosition`       | `string`            | Passed to the `object-fit-images` polyfill when importing from `gatsby-image/withIEPolyfill`. Defaults to `50% 50%`.          |
| `loading`              | `string`            | Set the browser's native lazy loading attribute. One of `lazy`, `eager` or `auto`. Defaults to `lazy`.                        |
| `critical`             | `bool`              | Opt-out of lazy-loading behavior. Defaults to `false`. Deprecated, use `loading` instead.                                     |

Here are some usage examples:

```jsx
<Img
  fluid={data.file.childImageSharp.fluid}
  alt="Cat taking up an entire chair"
  fadeIn="false"
  className="customImg"
  placeholderStyle={{ `backgroundColor`: `black` }}
  onLoad={() => {
    // do loading stuff
  }}
  onStartLoad={({ wasCached }) => {
    // do stuff on start of loading
    // optionally with the wasCached boolean parameter
  }}
  onError={(error) => {
    // do error stuff
  }}
  Tag="custom-image"
  loading="eager"
/>
```

Commit message:

feat(gatsby-transformer-sharp): add inside and outside fit opt… (#14852)
Added `INSIDE` and `OUTSIDE` options for for gatsby-transformer-sharp. Here's a use case for inside [#13078 (comment)](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/pull/13078#issuecomment-482247808).
This includes changing gatsby-image to use `contain` instead of `cover` for object-fit, which does not affect the existing fit options.
Updated documentation for gatsby-transformer-sharp to clarify the fit options and show that they are available for all three functions.

NOTE: This is an extension of PR #13393 by @VGoose , which was closed because he didn't have time to complete the work.


Co-authored-by: AnhVoMBP15 <anhvouw@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: soundguy66 <soundguy66@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: gatsbybot <mathews.kyle+gatsbybot@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Ward Peeters <ward@coding-tech.com>

docs/docs/gatsby-image.md, after:

---
title: Gatsby Image API
---

Part of what makes Gatsby sites so fast is its recommended approach to handling images. `gatsby-image` is a React component designed to work seamlessly with Gatsby’s [native image processing](https://image-processing.gatsbyjs.org/) capabilities powered by GraphQL and [gatsby-plugin-sharp](/packages/gatsby-plugin-sharp/) to easily and completely optimize image loading for your sites.

> _Note: gatsby-image is **not** a drop-in replacement for `<img />`. It’s optimized for responsive fixed width/height images and images that stretch the full-width of a container. There are also other ways to [work with images](/docs/images-and-files/) in Gatsby that don't require GraphQL._

Demo: [https://using-gatsby-image.gatsbyjs.org/](https://using-gatsby-image.gatsbyjs.org/)

## In this doc

- [Setting up Gatsby Image](#setting-up-gatsby-image)
- [Types of images with gatsby-image](#types-of-images-with-gatsby-image)
  - [Fixed images and parameters](#images-with-a-fixed-width-and-height)
  - [Fluid images and parameters](#images-that-stretch-across-a-fluid-container)
  - [Resized images](#resized-images)
  - [Shared query parameters](#shared-query-parameters)
- [Image query fragments](#image-query-fragments)
- [Gatsby Image props](#gatsby-image-props)

## Setting up Gatsby Image

To start working with Gatsby Image, install the `gatsby-image` package along with necessary plugins `gatsby-transformer-sharp` and `gatsby-plugin-sharp`. Reference the packages in your `gatsby-config.js` file. You can also provide additional options to [`gatsby-plugin-sharp`](/packages/gatsby-plugin-sharp/) in your config file.

A common way to source images is to install and use `gatsby-source-filesystem` to connect your local files, but other source plugins can be used as well, such as `gatsby-source-contentful`, `gatsby-source-datocms` and `gatsby-source-sanity`.

```bash
npm install --save gatsby-image gatsby-plugin-sharp gatsby-transformer-sharp
```

```js:title=gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    `gatsby-transformer-sharp`,
    `gatsby-plugin-sharp`,
    {
      resolve: `gatsby-source-filesystem`,
      options: {
        path: `${__dirname}/src/data/`,
      },
    },
  ],
}
```

_For in-depth install instructions, check out the docs on [Using Gatsby Image](/docs/using-gatsby-image/)._

### Gatsby image starts with a query

To feed file data in to Gatsby Image, set up a [GraphQL query](/docs/graphql-reference/) and either pass it into a component as props or write it directly in the component. One technique is to leverage the [`useStaticQuery`](/docs/use-static-query/) hook.

Common GraphQL queries for sourcing images include `file` from [gatsby-source-filesystem](/packages/gatsby-source-filesystem/), and both `imageSharp` and `allImageSharp` from [gatsby-plugin-sharp](/packages/gatsby-plugin-sharp/), but ultimately the options available to you will depend on your content sources.

> Note: you can also use [GraphQL aliases](/docs/graphql-reference/#aliasing) for querying multiple images of the same type.

See below for code examples of queries and how to use them in components.

## Types of images with `gatsby-image`

Gatsby image objects are created through GraphQL methods. There are two types of image optimizations available, _fixed_ and _fluid_, which create multiple image sizes (1x, 1.5x, etc.). There is also the _resize_ method, which returns a single image.

### Images with a _fixed_ width and height

Automatically create images for different resolutions at a set width or height — Gatsby creates responsive images for 1x, 1.5x, and 2x pixel densities using the `<picture>` element.

Once you've queried for a `fixed` image to retrieve its data, you can pass that data into the `Img` component:

```jsx
import { useStaticQuery, graphql } from "gatsby"
import Img from "gatsby-image"

export default () => {
  const data = useStaticQuery(graphql`
    query {
      file(relativePath: { eq: "images/default.jpg" }) {
        childImageSharp {
          # Specify a fixed image and fragment.
          # The default width is 400 pixels
          // highlight-start
          fixed {
            ...GatsbyImageSharpFixed
          }
          // highlight-end
        }
      }
    }
  `)
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Hello gatsby-image</h1>
      <Img
        fixed={data.file.childImageSharp.fixed} {/* highlight-line */}
        alt="Gatsby Docs are awesome"
      />
    </div>
  )
}
```

#### Fixed image query parameters

In a query, you can specify options for fixed images.

- `width` (int, default: 400)
- `height` (int)
- `quality` (int, default: 50)

#### Returns

- `base64` (string)
- `aspectRatio` (float)
- `width` (float)
- `height` (float)
- `src` (string)
- `srcSet` (string)

This is where fragments like `GatsbyImageSharpFixed` come in handy, as they'll return all the above items in one line without having to type them all out:

```graphql
file(relativePath: { eq: "images/default.jpg" }) {
  childImageSharp {
    // highlight-start
    fixed(width: 400, height: 400) {
      ...GatsbyImageSharpFixed
      // highlight-end
    }
  }
}
```

Read more about fixed image queries in the [gatsby-plugin-sharp](/packages/gatsby-plugin-sharp/#fixed) README.

### Images that stretch across a _fluid_ container

Create flexible sizes for an image that stretches to fill its container. E.g. for a container whose max width is 800px, the automatic sizes would be: 200px, 400px, 800px, 1200px and 1600px – enough to provide close to the optimal image size for every device size / screen resolution. If you want more control over which sizes are output you can use the `srcSetBreakpoints` parameter.

Once you've queried for a `fluid` image to retrieve its data, you can pass that data into the `Img` component:

```jsx
import { useStaticQuery, graphql } from "gatsby"
import Img from "gatsby-image"

export default () => {
  const data = useStaticQuery(graphql`
    query {
      file(relativePath: { eq: "images/default.jpg" }) {
        childImageSharp {
          # Specify a fluid image and fragment
          # The default maxWidth is 800 pixels
          // highlight-start
          fluid {
            ...GatsbyImageSharpFluid
          }
          // highlight-end
        }
      }
    }
  `)
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Hello gatsby-image</h1>
      <Img
        fluid={data.file.childImageSharp.fluid} {/* highlight-line */}
        alt="Gatsby Docs are awesome"
      />
    </div>
  )
}
```

#### Fluid image query parameters

In a query, you can specify options for fluid images.

- `maxWidth` (int, default: 800)
- `maxHeight`(int)
- `quality` (int, default: 50)
- `srcSetBreakpoints` (array of int, default: [])
- `background` (string, default: `rgba(0,0,0,1)`)

#### Returns

- `base64` (string)
- `aspectRatio` (float)
- `src` (string)
- `srcSet` (string)
- `srcSetType` (string)
- `sizes` (string)
- `originalImg` (string)

This is where fragments like `GatsbyImageSharpFluid` come in handy, as they'll return all the above items in one line without having to type them all out:

```graphql
file(relativePath: { eq: "images/default.jpg" }) {
  childImageSharp {
    // highlight-start
    fluid(maxWidth: 400) {
      ...GatsbyImageSharpFluid
      // highlight-end
    }
  }
}
```

Read more about fluid image queries in the [gatsby-plugin-sharp](/packages/gatsby-plugin-sharp/#fluid) README.

### Resized images

In addition to _fixed_ and _fluid_ images, the gatsby-image API allows you to call a `resize` method with `gatsby-plugin-sharp` to return a single image as opposed to multiple sizes. There are no default fragments available for the resize method.

#### Parameters

- `width` (int, default: 400)
- `height` (int)
- `quality` (int, default: 50)
- `jpegProgressive` (bool, default: true)
- `pngCompressionLevel` (int, default: 9)
- `base64`(bool, default: false)

#### Returns

Resize returns an object with the following items:

- `src` (string)
- `width` (int)
- `height` (int)
- `aspectRatio` (float)

```graphql
allImageSharp {
  edges {
    node {
        resize(width: 150, height: 150, grayscale: true) {
          src
        }
    }
  }
}
```

Read more about resized image queries in the [gatsby-plugin-sharp](/packages/gatsby-plugin-sharp/#resize) README.

### Shared query parameters

In addition to `gatsby-plugin-sharp` settings in `gatsby-config.js`, there are additional query options that apply to _fluid_, _fixed_, and _resized_ images:

- [`grayscale`](/packages/gatsby-plugin-sharp/#grayscale) (bool, default: false)
- [`duotone`](/packages/gatsby-plugin-sharp/#duotone) (bool|obj, default: false)
- [`toFormat`](/packages/gatsby-plugin-sharp/#toformat) (string, default: \`\`)
- [`cropFocus`](/packages/gatsby-plugin-sharp/#cropfocus) (string, default: `ATTENTION`)
- [`fit`](/packages/gatsby-plugin-sharp/#fit) (string, default: `COVER`)
- [`pngCompressionSpeed`](/packages/gatsby-plugin-sharp/#pngcompressionspeed) (int, default: 4)
- [`rotate`](/packages/gatsby-plugin-sharp/#rotate) (int, default: 0)

Here's an example of using the `duotone` option with a fixed image:

```graphql
fixed(
  width: 800,
  duotone: {
    highlight: "#f00e2e",
    shadow: "#192550"
  }
)
```

<figure>
  <img
    alt="Jay Gatsby holding wine class in normal color and duotone."
    src="./images/duotone-before-after.png"
  />
  <figcaption>Duotone | Before - After</figcaption>
</figure>

And an example of using the `grayscale` option with a fixed image:

```graphql
fixed(
  grayscale: true
)
```

<figure>
  <img
    alt="Jay Gatsby holding wine class in normal color and duotone."
    src="./images/grayscale-before-after.png"
  />
  <figcaption>Grayscale | Before - After</figcaption>
</figure>

Read more about shared image query parameters in the [`gatsby-plugin-sharp`](/packages/gatsby-plugin-sharp/#shared-options) README.

## Image query fragments

GraphQL includes a concept called "query fragments", which are a part of a query that can be reused. To ease building with `gatsby-image`, Gatsby image processing plugins which support `gatsby-image` ship with fragments which you can easily include in your queries.

> Note: using fragments in your queries depends on which data source(s) you have configured. Read more about image query fragments in the [gatsby-image](/packages/gatsby-image/#fragments) README.

### Common fragments with `gatsby-transformer-sharp`

#### Fixed images

- `GatsbyImageSharpFixed`
- `GatsbyImageSharpFixed_noBase64`
- `GatsbyImageSharpFixed_tracedSVG`
- `GatsbyImageSharpFixed_withWebp`
- `GatsbyImageSharpFixed_withWebp_noBase64`
- `GatsbyImageSharpFixed_withWebp_tracedSVG`

#### Fluid images

- `GatsbyImageSharpFluid`
- `GatsbyImageSharpFluid_noBase64`
- `GatsbyImageSharpFluid_tracedSVG`
- `GatsbyImageSharpFluid_withWebp`
- `GatsbyImageSharpFluid_withWebp_noBase64`
- `GatsbyImageSharpFluid_withWebp_tracedSVG`

#### About `noBase64`

If you don't want to use the [blur-up effect](https://using-gatsby-image.gatsbyjs.org/blur-up/), choose the fragment with `noBase64` at the end.

#### About `tracedSVG`

If you want to use the [traced placeholder SVGs](https://using-gatsby-image.gatsbyjs.org/traced-svg/), choose the fragment with `tracedSVG` at the end.

#### About `withWebP`

If you want to automatically use [WebP images](https://developers.google.com/speed/webp/) when the browser supports the file format, use the `withWebp` fragments. If the browser doesn't support WebP, `gatsby-image` will fall back to the default image format.

Here's an example of using a non-default fragment from `gatsby-transformer-sharp`. Be sure to pick one that matches your desired image type (_fixed_ or _fluid_):

```graphql
file(relativePath: { eq: "images/default.jpg" }) {
  childImageSharp {
    fluid {
      // highlight-next-line
      ...GatsbyImageSharpFluid_tracedSVG
    }
  }
}
```

For more info on how these options work, check out the Gatsby Image demo: [https://using-gatsby-image.gatsbyjs.org/](https://using-gatsby-image.gatsbyjs.org/)

#### Additional plugin fragments

Additionally, plugins supporting `gatsby-image` currently include [gatsby-source-contentful](/packages/gatsby-source-contentful/), [gatsby-source-datocms](https://github.com/datocms/gatsby-source-datocms) and [gatsby-source-sanity](https://github.com/sanity-io/gatsby-source-sanity). See the [gatsby-image](/packages/gatsby-image/#fragments) README for more details.

## Gatsby-image props

After you've made a query, you can pass additional options to the gatsby-image component.

| Name                   | Type                | Description                                                                                                                   |
| ---------------------- | ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `fixed`                | `object`            | Data returned from the `fixed` query                                                                                          |
| `fluid`                | `object`            | Data returned from the `fluid` query                                                                                          |
| `fadeIn`               | `bool`              | Defaults to fading in the image on load                                                                                       |
| `durationFadeIn`       | `number`            | fade-in duration is set up to 500ms by default                                                                                |
| `title`                | `string`            | Passed to the rendered HTML `img` element                                                                                     |
| `alt`                  | `string`            | Passed to the rendered HTML `img` element. Defaults to an empty string, e.g. `alt=""`                                         |
| `crossOrigin`          | `string`            | Passed to the rendered HTML `img` element                                                                                     |
| `className`            | `string` / `object` | Passed to the wrapper element. Object is needed to support Glamor's css prop                                                  |
| `style`                | `object`            | Spread into the default styles of the wrapper element                                                                         |
| `imgStyle`             | `object`            | Spread into the default styles of the actual `img` element                                                                    |
| `placeholderStyle`     | `object`            | Spread into the default styles of the placeholder `img` element                                                               |
| `placeholderClassName` | `string`            | A class that is passed to the placeholder `img` element                                                                       |
| `backgroundColor`      | `string` / `bool`   | Set a colored background placeholder. If true, uses "lightgray" for the color. You can also pass in any valid color string.   |
| `onLoad`               | `func`              | A callback that is called when the full-size image has loaded.                                                                |
| `onStartLoad`          | `func`              | A callback that is called when the full-size image starts loading, it gets the parameter `{ wasCached: <boolean> }` provided. |
| `onError`              | `func`              | A callback that is called when the image fails to load.                                                                       |
| `Tag`                  | `string`            | Which HTML tag to use for wrapping elements. Defaults to `div`.                                                               |
| `objectFit`            | `string`            | Passed to the `object-fit-images` polyfill when importing from `gatsby-image/withIEPolyfill`. Defaults to `cover`.            |
| `objectPosition`       | `string`            | Passed to the `object-fit-images` polyfill when importing from `gatsby-image/withIEPolyfill`. Defaults to `50% 50%`.          |
| `loading`              | `string`            | Set the browser's native lazy loading attribute. One of `lazy`, `eager` or `auto`. Defaults to `lazy`.                        |
| `critical`             | `bool`              | Opt-out of lazy-loading behavior. Defaults to `false`. Deprecated, use `loading` instead.                                     |

Here are some usage examples:

```jsx
<Img
  fluid={data.file.childImageSharp.fluid}
  alt="Cat taking up an entire chair"
  fadeIn="false"
  className="customImg"
  placeholderStyle={{ `backgroundColor`: `black` }}
  onLoad={() => {
    // do loading stuff
  }}
  onStartLoad={({ wasCached }) => {
    // do stuff on start of loading
    // optionally with the wasCached boolean parameter
  }}
  onError={(error) => {
    // do error stuff
  }}
  Tag="custom-image"
  loading="eager"
/>
```
