docs/docs/graphql-reference.md, before:

---
title: GraphQL Reference
---

> Work in progress - pull requests showing additional examples are strongly encouraged.

## Intro

This page will walk you through a series of GraphQL queries, each designed to demonstrate a particular feature of GraphQL. You'll be querying the _real_ schema used on gatsbyjs.org so feel free to experiment and poke around the innards of our site!

You'll be using GraphiQL, an interactive editor you can also use [while building your Gatsby site](/tutorial/part-four/#introducing-graphiql).

## Basic query

Let's start with the basics, pulling up the site `title` from your `gatsby-config.js`'s `siteMetaData`. Here the query is on the left and the results are on the right.

<iframe src="https://gatsbygraphql.sloppy.zone/?query=%7B%0A%20%20site%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20siteMetadata%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20title%0A%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%7D%0A%7D" width="600" height="400"></iframe>

Try editing the query to include the `description` from `siteMetadata`. When typing in the query editor you can use `Ctrl + Space` to see autocomplete options and `Ctrl + Enter` to run the current query.

## A longer query

Gatsby structures its content as collections of `nodes`, which are connected to each other with `edges`. In this query you ask for the total count of plugins in this Gatsby site, along with specific information about each one.

<iframe src="https://gatsbygraphql.sloppy.zone/?query=%7B%0A%20%20allSitePlugin%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20totalCount%0A%20%20%20%20edges%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20node%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20name%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20version%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20packageJson%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20description%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%7D%0A%7D%0A" width="600" height="400"></iframe>

Try using the editor's autocomplete (`Ctrl + Space`) to get extended details from the `packageJson` nodes.

## Limit

There are several ways to reduce the number of results from a query. Here `totalCount` tells you there's a few hundred results, but `limit` is used to show only the first two.

<iframe src="https://gatsbygraphql.sloppy.zone/?query=%7B%0A%20%20allMarkdownRemark(%0A%20%20%20%20limit%3A%202%0A%20%20)%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20totalCount%0A%20%20%20%20edges%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20node%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20frontmatter%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20title%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%7D%0A%7D%0A" width="600" height="400"></iframe>

## Filter

In this query `filter` and the `ne` (not equals) operator is used to show only results that have a title.

<iframe src="https://gatsbygraphql.sloppy.zone/?query=%7B%0A%20%20allMarkdownRemark(%0A%20%20%20%20filter%3A%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20frontmatter%3A%20%7B%20title%3A%20%7B%20ne%3A%20%22%22%20%7D%20%7D%0A%20%20%09%7D%0A%20%20)%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20totalCount%0A%20%20%20%20edges%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20node%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20frontmatter%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20title%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%7D%0A%7D%0A" width="600" height="400"></iframe>

Gatsby relies on [Sift](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sift) to enable MongoDB-like query syntax for object filtering. This allows Gatsby to support operators like `eq`, `ne`, `in`, `regex` and querying nested fields through the `__` connector

A good video tutorial on this is [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lg1bom99uGM).

> TODO: Add more advanced examples

## Sort

The ordering of your results can be specified with `sort`. Here the results are sorted in ascending order of `frontmatter`'s `date` field.

<iframe src="https://gatsbygraphql.sloppy.zone/?query=%7B%0A%20%20allMarkdownRemark(%0A%20%20%20%20sort%3A%20%7Bfields%3A%20%5Bfrontmatter___date%5D%2C%20order%3A%20ASC%7D%2C%0A%20%20)%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20totalCount%0A%20%20%20%20edges%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20node%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20frontmatter%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20title%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20date%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%7D%0A%7D%0A%0A" width="600" height="400"></iframe>

> TODO: Can you sort on multiple fields?

## Format

Dates can be formatted using the `formatString` function.

<iframe src="https://gatsbygraphql.sloppy.zone/?query=%7B%0A%20%20allMarkdownRemark(%0A%20%20%20%20filter%3A%20%7Bfrontmatter%3A%20%7Bdate%3A%20%7Bne%3A%20null%7D%7D%7D%0A%20%20)%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20edges%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20node%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20frontmatter%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20title%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20date(formatString%3A%20%22dddd%20DD%20MMMM%20YYYY%22)%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%7D%0A%7D" width="600" height="400"></iframe>

> TODO: Expand on the possibilities of formatting - which fields can be formatted? What are the available formatting options?

## Sort, filter, limit & format together

This query combines sorting, filtering, limiting and formatting together.

<iframe src="https://gatsbygraphql.sloppy.zone/?query=%7B%0A%20%20allMarkdownRemark(%0A%20%20%20%20limit%3A%203%0A%20%20%20%20filter%3A%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20frontmatter%3A%20%7Bdate%3A%20%7Bne%3A%20null%7D%7D%0A%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%20%20sort%3A%20%7Bfields%3A%20%5Bfrontmatter___date%5D%2C%20order%3A%20DESC%7D%0A%20%20)%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20edges%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20node%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20fields%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20slug%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20frontmatter%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20title%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20date(formatString%3A%20%22dddd%20DD%20MMMM%20YYYY%22)%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%7D%0A%7D" width="600" height="400"></iframe>

## Query variables

Work in progress - pull requests welcome.

## Where next?

Try [running your own queries](<https://gatsbygraphql.sloppy.zone/?query=%23%20Welcome%20to%20GraphiQL%0A%23%0A%23%20GraphiQL%20is%20an%20in-browser%20tool%20for%20writing%2C%20validating%2C%20and%0A%23%20testing%20GraphQL%20queries.%0A%23%0A%23%20Type%20queries%20into%20this%20side%20of%20the%20screen%2C%20and%20you%20will%20see%20intelligent%0A%23%20typeaheads%20aware%20of%20the%20current%20GraphQL%20type%20schema%20and%20live%20syntax%20and%0A%23%20validation%20errors%20highlighted%20within%20the%20text.%0A%23%0A%23%20GraphQL%20queries%20typically%20start%20with%20a%20%22%7B%22%20character.%20Lines%20that%20starts%0A%23%20with%20a%20%23%20are%20ignored.%0A%23%0A%23%20All%20the%20data%20behind%20gatsbyjs.org%20can%20be%20queried%20from%20here.%20Below%20is%20%0A%23%20an%20example%20query%20to%20get%20you%20started.%0A%23%0A%23%20Keyboard%20shortcuts%3A%0A%23%0A%23%20%20Prettify%20Query%3A%20%20Shift-Ctrl-P%20(or%20press%20the%20prettify%20button%20above)%0A%23%0A%23%20%20%20%20%20%20%20Run%20Query%3A%20%20Ctrl-Enter%20(or%20press%20the%20play%20button%20above)%0A%23%0A%23%20%20%20Auto%20Complete%3A%20%20Ctrl-Space%20(or%20just%20start%20typing)%0A%23%0A%0A%7B%0A%20%20allSitePage(%0A%20%20%20%20limit%3A%205%0A%20%20)%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20edges%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20node%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20path%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%7D%0A%7D>), check out the rest of [the docs](/docs/) or run through [the tutorial](/tutorial/).

Commit message:

Add new example doc: GraphQL Reference/Query Variables (#4795)
* Add new example doc: GraphQL Reference/Query Variables

* Update graphql-reference.md

docs/docs/graphql-reference.md, after:

---
title: GraphQL Reference
---

> Work in progress - pull requests showing additional examples are strongly encouraged.

## Intro

This page will walk you through a series of GraphQL queries, each designed to demonstrate a particular feature of GraphQL. You'll be querying the _real_ schema used on gatsbyjs.org so feel free to experiment and poke around the innards of our site!

You'll be using GraphiQL, an interactive editor you can also use [while building your Gatsby site](/tutorial/part-four/#introducing-graphiql).

## Basic query

Let's start with the basics, pulling up the site `title` from your `gatsby-config.js`'s `siteMetaData`. Here the query is on the left and the results are on the right.

<iframe src="https://gatsbygraphql.sloppy.zone/?query=%7B%0A%20%20site%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20siteMetadata%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20title%0A%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%7D%0A%7D" width="600" height="400"></iframe>

Try editing the query to include the `description` from `siteMetadata`. When typing in the query editor you can use `Ctrl + Space` to see autocomplete options and `Ctrl + Enter` to run the current query.

## A longer query

Gatsby structures its content as collections of `nodes`, which are connected to each other with `edges`. In this query you ask for the total count of plugins in this Gatsby site, along with specific information about each one.

<iframe src="https://gatsbygraphql.sloppy.zone/?query=%7B%0A%20%20allSitePlugin%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20totalCount%0A%20%20%20%20edges%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20node%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20name%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20version%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20packageJson%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20description%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%7D%0A%7D%0A" width="600" height="400"></iframe>

Try using the editor's autocomplete (`Ctrl + Space`) to get extended details from the `packageJson` nodes.

## Limit

There are several ways to reduce the number of results from a query. Here `totalCount` tells you there's a few hundred results, but `limit` is used to show only the first two.

<iframe src="https://gatsbygraphql.sloppy.zone/?query=%7B%0A%20%20allMarkdownRemark(%0A%20%20%20%20limit%3A%202%0A%20%20)%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20totalCount%0A%20%20%20%20edges%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20node%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20frontmatter%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20title%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%7D%0A%7D%0A" width="600" height="400"></iframe>

## Filter

In this query `filter` and the `ne` (not equals) operator is used to show only results that have a title.

<iframe src="https://gatsbygraphql.sloppy.zone/?query=%7B%0A%20%20allMarkdownRemark(%0A%20%20%20%20filter%3A%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20frontmatter%3A%20%7B%20title%3A%20%7B%20ne%3A%20%22%22%20%7D%20%7D%0A%20%20%09%7D%0A%20%20)%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20totalCount%0A%20%20%20%20edges%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20node%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20frontmatter%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20title%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%7D%0A%7D%0A" width="600" height="400"></iframe>

Gatsby relies on [Sift](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sift) to enable MongoDB-like query syntax for object filtering. This allows Gatsby to support operators like `eq`, `ne`, `in`, `regex` and querying nested fields through the `__` connector

A good video tutorial on this is [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lg1bom99uGM).

> TODO: Add more advanced examples

## Sort

The ordering of your results can be specified with `sort`. Here the results are sorted in ascending order of `frontmatter`'s `date` field.

<iframe src="https://gatsbygraphql.sloppy.zone/?query=%7B%0A%20%20allMarkdownRemark(%0A%20%20%20%20sort%3A%20%7Bfields%3A%20%5Bfrontmatter___date%5D%2C%20order%3A%20ASC%7D%2C%0A%20%20)%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20totalCount%0A%20%20%20%20edges%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20node%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20frontmatter%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20title%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20date%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%7D%0A%7D%0A%0A" width="600" height="400"></iframe>

> TODO: Can you sort on multiple fields?

## Format

Dates can be formatted using the `formatString` function.

<iframe src="https://gatsbygraphql.sloppy.zone/?query=%7B%0A%20%20allMarkdownRemark(%0A%20%20%20%20filter%3A%20%7Bfrontmatter%3A%20%7Bdate%3A%20%7Bne%3A%20null%7D%7D%7D%0A%20%20)%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20edges%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20node%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20frontmatter%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20title%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20date(formatString%3A%20%22dddd%20DD%20MMMM%20YYYY%22)%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%7D%0A%7D" width="600" height="400"></iframe>

> TODO: Expand on the possibilities of formatting - which fields can be formatted? What are the available formatting options?

## Sort, filter, limit & format together

This query combines sorting, filtering, limiting and formatting together.

<iframe src="https://gatsbygraphql.sloppy.zone/?query=%7B%0A%20%20allMarkdownRemark(%0A%20%20%20%20limit%3A%203%0A%20%20%20%20filter%3A%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20frontmatter%3A%20%7Bdate%3A%20%7Bne%3A%20null%7D%7D%0A%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%20%20sort%3A%20%7Bfields%3A%20%5Bfrontmatter___date%5D%2C%20order%3A%20DESC%7D%0A%20%20)%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20edges%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20node%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20fields%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20slug%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20frontmatter%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20title%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20date(formatString%3A%20%22dddd%20DD%20MMMM%20YYYY%22)%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%7D%0A%7D" width="600" height="400"></iframe>

## Query variables

In addition to adding query arguments directly to queries, GraphQL allows to pass in "query variables". These can be both simple scalar values as well as objects.

The query below is the same one as the previous example, but with the input arguments passed in as "query variables".

To add variables to page component queries, pass these in the `context` object [when creating pages](https://deploy-preview-4795--gatsbyjs.netlify.com/docs/creating-and-modifying-pages/#creating-pages-in-gatsby-nodejs).

<iframe src="https://gatsbygraphql.sloppy.zone/?query=query%20GetBlogPosts(%24limit%3A%20Int%2C%20%24filter%3A%20filterMarkdownRemark%2C%20%24sort%3A%20markdownRemarkConnectionSort)%20%7B%0A%09allMarkdownRemark(%0A%20%20%20%20limit%3A%20%24limit%2C%0A%20%20%20%20filter%3A%20%24filter%2C%0A%20%20%20%20sort%3A%20%24sort%0A%20%20)%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20edges%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20node%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20fields%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20slug%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20frontmatter%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20title%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20date(formatString%3A%20%22dddd%20DD%20MMMM%20YYYY%22)%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%7D%20%20%20%20%0A%7D&operationName=GetBlogPosts&variables=%7B%0A%20%20%22limit%22%3A%203%2C%0A%20%20%22filter%22%3A%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%22frontmatter%22%3A%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%22date%22%3A%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%22ne%22%3A%20null%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%7D%2C%0A%20%20%22sort%22%3A%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%22fields%22%3A%20%22frontmatter___date%22%2C%0A%20%20%20%20%22order%22%3A%20%22DESC%22%0A%20%20%7D%0A%7D" width="600" height="400"></iframe>


## Where next?

Try [running your own queries](<https://gatsbygraphql.sloppy.zone/?query=%23%20Welcome%20to%20GraphiQL%0A%23%0A%23%20GraphiQL%20is%20an%20in-browser%20tool%20for%20writing%2C%20validating%2C%20and%0A%23%20testing%20GraphQL%20queries.%0A%23%0A%23%20Type%20queries%20into%20this%20side%20of%20the%20screen%2C%20and%20you%20will%20see%20intelligent%0A%23%20typeaheads%20aware%20of%20the%20current%20GraphQL%20type%20schema%20and%20live%20syntax%20and%0A%23%20validation%20errors%20highlighted%20within%20the%20text.%0A%23%0A%23%20GraphQL%20queries%20typically%20start%20with%20a%20%22%7B%22%20character.%20Lines%20that%20starts%0A%23%20with%20a%20%23%20are%20ignored.%0A%23%0A%23%20All%20the%20data%20behind%20gatsbyjs.org%20can%20be%20queried%20from%20here.%20Below%20is%20%0A%23%20an%20example%20query%20to%20get%20you%20started.%0A%23%0A%23%20Keyboard%20shortcuts%3A%0A%23%0A%23%20%20Prettify%20Query%3A%20%20Shift-Ctrl-P%20(or%20press%20the%20prettify%20button%20above)%0A%23%0A%23%20%20%20%20%20%20%20Run%20Query%3A%20%20Ctrl-Enter%20(or%20press%20the%20play%20button%20above)%0A%23%0A%23%20%20%20Auto%20Complete%3A%20%20Ctrl-Space%20(or%20just%20start%20typing)%0A%23%0A%0A%7B%0A%20%20allSitePage(%0A%20%20%20%20limit%3A%205%0A%20%20)%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20edges%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20node%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20path%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%7D%0A%7D>), check out the rest of [the docs](/docs/) or run through [the tutorial](/tutorial/).
