docs/docs/migrating-from-v1-to-v2.md, before:

---
title: Migrating from v1 to v2
---

> This document is a work in progress. Have you upgraded your site and run into something that's not covered here? [Add your changes on GitHub](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/edit/v2/docs/docs/migrating-from-v1-to-v2.md)!

## Introduction

This is a reference for upgrading your site from Gatsby v1 to Gatsby v2. While there's a lot covered here, you probably won't need to do everything for your site.

## What we'll cover

- [Update Gatsby version](#update-gatsby-version)
- [Manually install React](#manually-install-react)
- [Manually install plugins’ peer dependencies](#manually-install-plugins-peer-dependencies)
- [Update layout component](#update-layout-component)
- [Rename `boundActionCreators` to `actions`](#rename-boundactioncreators-to-actions)
- [Rename `pathContext` to `pageContext`](#rename-pathcontext-to-pagecontext)
- [Rename responsive image queries](#rename-responsive-image-queries)
- [Manually specify PostCSS plugins](#manually-specify-postcss-plugins)
- [Convert to either pure CommonJS or pure ES6](#convert-to-either-pure-commonjs-or-pure-es6)
- [Don't query nodes by ID](#dont-query-nodes-by-id)
- [Remove explicit polyfills](#remove-explicit-polyfills)
- [Change `modifyBabelrc` to `onCreateBabelConfig`](#change-modifybabelrc-to-oncreatebabelconfig)
- [Change `modifyWebpackConfig` to `onCreateWebpackConfig`](#change-modifywebpackconfig-to-oncreatewebpackconfig)
- [Remove inlined CSS in `html.js`](#remove-inlined-css-in-htmljs)
- [Only allow defined keys on node.internal object](#only-allow-defined-keys-on-the-node-internal-object)
- [Import `graphql` types from `gatsby/graphql`](#import-graphql-types-from-gatsbygraphql)
- [Move Babel Configuration`](#move-babel-configuration)

You can start with a few of the most important steps - install Gatsby v2 dependencies and update your layout components.

## Update Gatsby version

Update your `package.json` to use the pre-release versions of Gatsby and any related packages.

`package.json`

```json
"dependencies": {
  "gatsby": "next",
  "gatsby-image": "next",
  "gatsby-plugin-sharp": "next"
}
```

> Note: Gatsby v2 is in pre-release so you may encounter further breaking changes.

## Manually install React

In v1, the `react` and `react-dom` packages were included as part of the `gatsby` package. They are now `peerDependencies` so you are required to install them into your project.

```bash
npm i react react-dom
```

## Manually install plugins’ peer dependencies

Some plugins had dependencies that were also made peerDependencies. For example, if you use [`gatsby-plugin-typography`](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/packages/gatsby-plugin-typography/), you now need to install:

```bash
npm i typography react-typography
```

Search for the plugins that you use in the [plugin library](/plugins) and check their installation instructions for additional packages that now need installed.

## Update layout component

The special layout component (`src/layouts/index.js`) that Gatsby v1 used to wrap every page has been removed. If the layout of your site appears to be broken, this is most likely the reason why.

To learn more about the considerations behind this removal, read the [RFC for removing the special layout component](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/rfcs/blob/master/text/0002-remove-special-layout-components.md).

The following is the recommended migration path:

### 1. Convert children from function to normal prop (required)

In v1, the `children` prop passed to layout was a function and needed to be executed. In v2, this is no longer the case.

```diff
import React from "react"

export default ({ children }) => (
  <div>
-    {children()}
+    {children}
  </div>
)
```

### 2. Move `layout/index.js` to `src/components/layout.js` (optional, but recommended)

```bash
git mv src/layouts/index.js src/components/layout.js
```

### 3. Import and wrap pages with layout component

Adhering to normal React composition model, you import the layout component and use it to wrap the content of the page.

`src/pages/index.js`

```jsx
import React from "react"
import Layout from "../components/layout"

export default () => (
  <Layout>
    <div>Hello World</div>
  </Layout>
)
```

Repeat for every page and template that needs this layout.

### 4. Change query to use `StaticQuery`

Since layout is no longer special, you now need to make use of v2’s [StaticQuery feature](/docs/static-query/).

Replacing a layout's query with `StaticQuery`:

`layout.js`

```diff
import React, { Fragment } from "react"
import Helmet from "react-helmet"
+ import { StaticQuery } from "gatsby"

- export default ({ children, data }) => (
-   <>
-     <Helmet titleTemplate={`%s | ${data.site.siteMetadata.title}`} defaultTitle={data.site.siteMetadata.title} />
-     <div>
-       {children()}
-     </div>
-   </>
- )
-
- export const query = graphql`
-   query LayoutQuery {
-     site {
-       siteMetadata {
-         title
-       }
-     }
-   }
- `
+ export default ({ children }) => (
+   <StaticQuery
+     query={graphql`
+       query LayoutQuery {
+         site {
+           siteMetadata {
+             title
+           }
+         }
+       }
+     `}
+     render={data => (
+       <>
+         <Helmet titleTemplate={`%s | ${data.site.siteMetadata.title}`} defaultTitle={data.site.siteMetadata.title} />
+         <div>
+           {children}
+         </div>
+       </>
+     )}
+   />
+ )
```

### 5. Pass `history`, `location`, and `match` props to layout

In v1, layout component had access to `history`, `location`, and `match` props. In v2, only pages have access to these props; pass them to your layout component as needed.

`layout.js`

```jsx
import React from "react"

export default ({ children, location }) => (
  <div>
    <p>Path is {location.pathname}</p>
    {children}
  </div>
)
```

`src/pages/index.js`

```jsx
import React from "react"
import Layout from "../components/layout.js"

export default props => (
  <Layout location={props.location}>
    <div>Hello World</div>
  </Layout>
)
```

## Rename `boundActionCreators` to `actions`

`boundActionCreators` is deprecated in v2. You can continue using it, but it’s recommended that you rename it to `actions`.

> TODO: document new actions - see [actions](/docs/actions)

## Rename `pathContext` to `pageContext`

Similar to `boundActionCreators` above, `pathContext` is deprecated in favor of `pageContext`.

## Rename responsive image queries

The `sizes` and `resolutions` queries are deprecated in v2. These queries have been renamed to `fluid` and `fixed` to make them easier to understand. You can continue using the deprecated query names, but it's recommended that you update them.

Update image query and fragment names:

```diff
const Example = ({ data }) => {
  <div>
-    <Img sizes={data.foo.childImageSharp.sizes} />
-    <Img resolutions={data.bar.childImageSharp.resolutions} />
+    <Img fluid={data.foo.childImageSharp.fluid} />
+    <Img fixed={data.bar.childImageSharp.fixed} />
  </div>
}

export default Example

export const pageQuery = graphql`
  query IndexQuery {
    foo: file(relativePath: { regex: "/foo.jpg/" }) {
      childImageSharp {
-        sizes(maxWidth: 700) {
-          ...GatsbyImageSharpSizes_tracedSVG
+        fluid(maxWidth: 700) {
+          ...GatsbyImageSharpFluid_tracedSVG
        }
      }
    }
    bar: file(relativePath: { regex: "/bar.jpg/" }) {
      childImageSharp {
-        resolutions(width: 500) {
-          ...GatsbyImageSharpResolutions_withWebp
+        fixed(width: 500) {
+          ...GatsbyImageSharpFixed_withWebp
        }
      }
    }
  }
`
```

Further examples can be found in the [Gatsby Image docs](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/tree/d0e29272ed7b009dae18d35d41a45e700cdcab0d/packages/gatsby-image).

## Manually specify PostCSS plugins

Gatsby v2 removed `postcss-cssnext` and `postcss-import` from the default postcss setup.

Use [`onCreateWebpackConfig`](/docs/add-custom-webpack-config) to specify your postcss plugins.

Note: there will be a `postcss` plugin that allows you to configure postcss from a standard postcss config file. [Follow this discussion on issue 3284](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/3284).

## Convert to either pure CommonJS or pure ES6

Gatsby v2 uses babel 7 which is stricter about parsing files with mixed JS styles.

ES6 Modules are ok:

```js
// GOOD: ES modules syntax works
import foo from "foo"
export default foo
```

CommonJS is ok:

```js
// GOOD: CommonJS syntax works
const foo = require("foo")
module.exports = foo
```

Mixing `requires` and `export` is not ok:

```js
// BAD: Mixed ES and CommonJS module syntax will cause failures
const foo = require("foo")
export default foo
```

Mixing `import` and `module.exports` is not ok:

```js
// BAD: Mixed ES and CommonJS module syntax will cause failures
import foo from "foo"
module.exports = foo
```

See [Gatsby's babel docs for more details](/docs/babel).

## Don't query nodes by ID

Source and transformer plugins now use UUIDs for IDs. If you used glob or regex to query nodes by id then you'll need to query something else.

Here's an example querying an image:

```diff
  query MyImageQuery {
    allImageSharp(filter: {
-     id: {regex: "/default.jpg/"}
+     fluid: {originalName: {regex: "/default.jpg/"}}
    }) {
      edges {
        node {
          id
          fluid(maxWidth: 660) {
            src
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
```

[See the Pull Request that implemented this change](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/pull/3807/files)

## Remove explicit polyfills

If your Gatsby v1 site included any polyfills, you can remove them. Gatsby v2 ships with babel 7 and is configured to automatically include polyfills for your code. See [Gatsby's babel docs for more details](/docs/babel).

> Note: This works for your own code, but is not yet implemented for code imported from `node_modules`. Track progress of this feature at [bullet 5 of this issue](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/3870).

## Change `modifyBabelrc` to `onCreateBabelConfig`

`modifyBabelrc` was renamed to [`onCreateBabelConfig`](/docs/node-apis/#modifyBabelrc) to bring it in line with the rest of Gatsby's API names.

Use `onCreateBabelConfig`:

```diff
- exports.modifyBabelrc = ({ babelrc }) => {
-   return {
-     ...babelrc,
-     plugins: babelrc.plugins.concat([`foo`]),
-   }
+ exports.onCreateBabelConfig = ({ actions }) => {
+   actions.setBabelPlugin({
+     name: `babel-plugin-foo`,
+   })
}
```

Note usage of the new [`setBabelPlugin` action](/docs/actions/#setBabelPlugins).

See [Gatsby's babel docs for more details](/docs/babel) about configuring babel.

## Change `modifyWebpackConfig` to `onCreateWebpackConfig`

`modifyWebpackConfig` was renamed to [`onCreateWebpackConfig`](/docs/node-apis/#onCreateWebpackConfig) to bring it in line with the rest of Gatsby's API names.

Use `onCreateWebpackConfig`:

```diff
- exports.modifyWebpackConfig = ({ config, stage }) => {
+ exports.onCreateWebpackConfig = ({ stage, actions }) => {
  switch (stage) {
    case `build-javascript`:
-       config.plugin(`Foo`, webpackFooPlugin, null)
-       break
-   }
-   return config
+       actions.setWebpackConfig({
+         plugins: [webpackFooPlugin],
+       })
+   }
}
```

Note usage of the new [`setWebpackConfig` action](/docs/actions/#setWebpackConfig).

See [Gatsby's webpack docs for more details](/docs/add-custom-webpack-config) about configuring webpack.

## Remove inlined CSS in `html.js`

Gatsby v2 automatically inlines CSS. You can remove any custom CSS inlining from your custom `html.js`.

See an example in [this PR that upgrades the `using-remark` site to Gatsby v2](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/commit/765b679cbc222fd5f527690427ee431cca7ccd61#diff-637c76e3c059ed8efacedf6e30de2d61).

## Only allow defined keys on the node internal object

The node internal object isn't meant for adding node data. Those should be added to the top-level object. We
didn't document this in v1 nor validate against it but are now for v2.

## Import `graphql` types from `gatsby/graphql`

Import graphql types from `gatsby/graphql` to prevent `Schema must contain unique named types but contains multiple types named "<typename>"` errors. `gatsby/graphql` exports all builtin GraphQL types as well as `graphQLJSON` type.

```diff
-const { GraphQLString } = require(`graphql`)
+const { GraphQLString } = require(`gatsby/graphql`)
```

## Move Babel Configuration
The latest version of Gatsby uses Babel 7, which introduced [a new behavior for configuration lookup / resolution](https://github.com/babel/babel/issues/6766).  In the case where a _.babelrc_ file might have been used at the root of the project, like for configuring Jest, moving that Babel configuration into _jest.config.json_ will avoid any conflicts.

[This GitHub comment](https://github.com/facebook/jest/issues/1468#issuecomment-361260279) documents the steps needed to do that.

More information on Gatsby and Babel configuration available [here](/docs/babel/#how-to-use-a-custom-babelrc-file).

Commit message:

Add "Link" part to upgrade docs (#5905)
Since I couldn't find any paragraph about this change I added something :)

docs/docs/migrating-from-v1-to-v2.md, after:

---
title: Migrating from v1 to v2
---

> This document is a work in progress. Have you upgraded your site and run into something that's not covered here? [Add your changes on GitHub](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/edit/v2/docs/docs/migrating-from-v1-to-v2.md)!

## Introduction

This is a reference for upgrading your site from Gatsby v1 to Gatsby v2. While there's a lot covered here, you probably won't need to do everything for your site.

## What we'll cover

- [Update Gatsby version](#update-gatsby-version)
- [Manually install React](#manually-install-react)
- [Manually install plugins’ peer dependencies](#manually-install-plugins-peer-dependencies)
- [Update layout component](#update-layout-component)
- [Import Link from Gatsby](#import-link-from-gatsby)
- [Rename `boundActionCreators` to `actions`](#rename-boundactioncreators-to-actions)
- [Rename `pathContext` to `pageContext`](#rename-pathcontext-to-pagecontext)
- [Rename responsive image queries](#rename-responsive-image-queries)
- [Manually specify PostCSS plugins](#manually-specify-postcss-plugins)
- [Convert to either pure CommonJS or pure ES6](#convert-to-either-pure-commonjs-or-pure-es6)
- [Don't query nodes by ID](#dont-query-nodes-by-id)
- [Remove explicit polyfills](#remove-explicit-polyfills)
- [Change `modifyBabelrc` to `onCreateBabelConfig`](#change-modifybabelrc-to-oncreatebabelconfig)
- [Change `modifyWebpackConfig` to `onCreateWebpackConfig`](#change-modifywebpackconfig-to-oncreatewebpackconfig)
- [Remove inlined CSS in `html.js`](#remove-inlined-css-in-htmljs)
- [Only allow defined keys on node.internal object](#only-allow-defined-keys-on-the-node-internal-object)
- [Import `graphql` types from `gatsby/graphql`](#import-graphql-types-from-gatsbygraphql)
- [Move Babel Configuration`](#move-babel-configuration)

You can start with a few of the most important steps - install Gatsby v2 dependencies and update your layout components.

## Update Gatsby version

Update your `package.json` to use the pre-release versions of Gatsby and any related packages.

`package.json`

```json
"dependencies": {
  "gatsby": "next",
  "gatsby-image": "next",
  "gatsby-plugin-sharp": "next"
}
```

> Note: Gatsby v2 is in pre-release so you may encounter further breaking changes.

## Manually install React

In v1, the `react` and `react-dom` packages were included as part of the `gatsby` package. They are now `peerDependencies` so you are required to install them into your project.

```bash
npm i react react-dom
```

## Manually install plugins’ peer dependencies

Some plugins had dependencies that were also made peerDependencies. For example, if you use [`gatsby-plugin-typography`](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/packages/gatsby-plugin-typography/), you now need to install:

```bash
npm i typography react-typography
```

Search for the plugins that you use in the [plugin library](/plugins) and check their installation instructions for additional packages that now need installed.

## Update layout component

The special layout component (`src/layouts/index.js`) that Gatsby v1 used to wrap every page has been removed. If the layout of your site appears to be broken, this is most likely the reason why.

To learn more about the considerations behind this removal, read the [RFC for removing the special layout component](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/rfcs/blob/master/text/0002-remove-special-layout-components.md).

The following is the recommended migration path:

### 1. Convert children from function to normal prop (required)

In v1, the `children` prop passed to layout was a function and needed to be executed. In v2, this is no longer the case.

```diff
import React from "react"

export default ({ children }) => (
  <div>
-    {children()}
+    {children}
  </div>
)
```

### 2. Move `layout/index.js` to `src/components/layout.js` (optional, but recommended)

```bash
git mv src/layouts/index.js src/components/layout.js
```

### 3. Import and wrap pages with layout component

Adhering to normal React composition model, you import the layout component and use it to wrap the content of the page.

`src/pages/index.js`

```jsx
import React from "react"
import Layout from "../components/layout"

export default () => (
  <Layout>
    <div>Hello World</div>
  </Layout>
)
```

Repeat for every page and template that needs this layout.

### 4. Change query to use `StaticQuery`

Since layout is no longer special, you now need to make use of v2’s [StaticQuery feature](/docs/static-query/).

Replacing a layout's query with `StaticQuery`:

`layout.js`

```diff
import React, { Fragment } from "react"
import Helmet from "react-helmet"
+ import { StaticQuery } from "gatsby"

- export default ({ children, data }) => (
-   <>
-     <Helmet titleTemplate={`%s | ${data.site.siteMetadata.title}`} defaultTitle={data.site.siteMetadata.title} />
-     <div>
-       {children()}
-     </div>
-   </>
- )
-
- export const query = graphql`
-   query LayoutQuery {
-     site {
-       siteMetadata {
-         title
-       }
-     }
-   }
- `
+ export default ({ children }) => (
+   <StaticQuery
+     query={graphql`
+       query LayoutQuery {
+         site {
+           siteMetadata {
+             title
+           }
+         }
+       }
+     `}
+     render={data => (
+       <>
+         <Helmet titleTemplate={`%s | ${data.site.siteMetadata.title}`} defaultTitle={data.site.siteMetadata.title} />
+         <div>
+           {children}
+         </div>
+       </>
+     )}
+   />
+ )
```

### 5. Pass `history`, `location`, and `match` props to layout

In v1, layout component had access to `history`, `location`, and `match` props. In v2, only pages have access to these props; pass them to your layout component as needed.

`layout.js`

```jsx
import React from "react"

export default ({ children, location }) => (
  <div>
    <p>Path is {location.pathname}</p>
    {children}
  </div>
)
```

`src/pages/index.js`

```jsx
import React from "react"
import Layout from "../components/layout.js"

export default props => (
  <Layout location={props.location}>
    <div>Hello World</div>
  </Layout>
)
```

## Import Link from Gatsby

All components and utility functions from `gatsby-link` are now exported from `gatsby` package. Therefore you should import it directly from `gatsby`.

```diff
import React from "react"
- import Link from "gatsby-link"
+ import { Link } from "gatsby"

export default props => (
  <Link to="/">Home</Link>
)
```

Furthermore you can remove the package from the `package.json`.

```diff
"dependencies": {
  "gatsby": "next",
  "gatsby-image": "next",
  "gatsby-plugin-sharp": "next",
- "gatsby-link": "^1.6.39" 
}
```

## Rename `boundActionCreators` to `actions`

`boundActionCreators` is deprecated in v2. You can continue using it, but it’s recommended that you rename it to `actions`.

> TODO: document new actions - see [actions](/docs/actions)

## Rename `pathContext` to `pageContext`

Similar to `boundActionCreators` above, `pathContext` is deprecated in favor of `pageContext`.

## Rename responsive image queries

The `sizes` and `resolutions` queries are deprecated in v2. These queries have been renamed to `fluid` and `fixed` to make them easier to understand. You can continue using the deprecated query names, but it's recommended that you update them.

Update image query and fragment names:

```diff
const Example = ({ data }) => {
  <div>
-    <Img sizes={data.foo.childImageSharp.sizes} />
-    <Img resolutions={data.bar.childImageSharp.resolutions} />
+    <Img fluid={data.foo.childImageSharp.fluid} />
+    <Img fixed={data.bar.childImageSharp.fixed} />
  </div>
}

export default Example

export const pageQuery = graphql`
  query IndexQuery {
    foo: file(relativePath: { regex: "/foo.jpg/" }) {
      childImageSharp {
-        sizes(maxWidth: 700) {
-          ...GatsbyImageSharpSizes_tracedSVG
+        fluid(maxWidth: 700) {
+          ...GatsbyImageSharpFluid_tracedSVG
        }
      }
    }
    bar: file(relativePath: { regex: "/bar.jpg/" }) {
      childImageSharp {
-        resolutions(width: 500) {
-          ...GatsbyImageSharpResolutions_withWebp
+        fixed(width: 500) {
+          ...GatsbyImageSharpFixed_withWebp
        }
      }
    }
  }
`
```

Further examples can be found in the [Gatsby Image docs](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/tree/d0e29272ed7b009dae18d35d41a45e700cdcab0d/packages/gatsby-image).

## Manually specify PostCSS plugins

Gatsby v2 removed `postcss-cssnext` and `postcss-import` from the default postcss setup.

Use [`onCreateWebpackConfig`](/docs/add-custom-webpack-config) to specify your postcss plugins.

Note: there will be a `postcss` plugin that allows you to configure postcss from a standard postcss config file. [Follow this discussion on issue 3284](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/3284).

## Convert to either pure CommonJS or pure ES6

Gatsby v2 uses babel 7 which is stricter about parsing files with mixed JS styles.

ES6 Modules are ok:

```js
// GOOD: ES modules syntax works
import foo from "foo"
export default foo
```

CommonJS is ok:

```js
// GOOD: CommonJS syntax works
const foo = require("foo")
module.exports = foo
```

Mixing `requires` and `export` is not ok:

```js
// BAD: Mixed ES and CommonJS module syntax will cause failures
const foo = require("foo")
export default foo
```

Mixing `import` and `module.exports` is not ok:

```js
// BAD: Mixed ES and CommonJS module syntax will cause failures
import foo from "foo"
module.exports = foo
```

See [Gatsby's babel docs for more details](/docs/babel).

## Don't query nodes by ID

Source and transformer plugins now use UUIDs for IDs. If you used glob or regex to query nodes by id then you'll need to query something else.

Here's an example querying an image:

```diff
  query MyImageQuery {
    allImageSharp(filter: {
-     id: {regex: "/default.jpg/"}
+     fluid: {originalName: {regex: "/default.jpg/"}}
    }) {
      edges {
        node {
          id
          fluid(maxWidth: 660) {
            src
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
```

[See the Pull Request that implemented this change](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/pull/3807/files)

## Remove explicit polyfills

If your Gatsby v1 site included any polyfills, you can remove them. Gatsby v2 ships with babel 7 and is configured to automatically include polyfills for your code. See [Gatsby's babel docs for more details](/docs/babel).

> Note: This works for your own code, but is not yet implemented for code imported from `node_modules`. Track progress of this feature at [bullet 5 of this issue](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/3870).

## Change `modifyBabelrc` to `onCreateBabelConfig`

`modifyBabelrc` was renamed to [`onCreateBabelConfig`](/docs/node-apis/#modifyBabelrc) to bring it in line with the rest of Gatsby's API names.

Use `onCreateBabelConfig`:

```diff
- exports.modifyBabelrc = ({ babelrc }) => {
-   return {
-     ...babelrc,
-     plugins: babelrc.plugins.concat([`foo`]),
-   }
+ exports.onCreateBabelConfig = ({ actions }) => {
+   actions.setBabelPlugin({
+     name: `babel-plugin-foo`,
+   })
}
```

Note usage of the new [`setBabelPlugin` action](/docs/actions/#setBabelPlugins).

See [Gatsby's babel docs for more details](/docs/babel) about configuring babel.

## Change `modifyWebpackConfig` to `onCreateWebpackConfig`

`modifyWebpackConfig` was renamed to [`onCreateWebpackConfig`](/docs/node-apis/#onCreateWebpackConfig) to bring it in line with the rest of Gatsby's API names.

Use `onCreateWebpackConfig`:

```diff
- exports.modifyWebpackConfig = ({ config, stage }) => {
+ exports.onCreateWebpackConfig = ({ stage, actions }) => {
  switch (stage) {
    case `build-javascript`:
-       config.plugin(`Foo`, webpackFooPlugin, null)
-       break
-   }
-   return config
+       actions.setWebpackConfig({
+         plugins: [webpackFooPlugin],
+       })
+   }
}
```

Note usage of the new [`setWebpackConfig` action](/docs/actions/#setWebpackConfig).

See [Gatsby's webpack docs for more details](/docs/add-custom-webpack-config) about configuring webpack.

## Remove inlined CSS in `html.js`

Gatsby v2 automatically inlines CSS. You can remove any custom CSS inlining from your custom `html.js`.

See an example in [this PR that upgrades the `using-remark` site to Gatsby v2](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/commit/765b679cbc222fd5f527690427ee431cca7ccd61#diff-637c76e3c059ed8efacedf6e30de2d61).

## Only allow defined keys on the node internal object

The node internal object isn't meant for adding node data. Those should be added to the top-level object. We
didn't document this in v1 nor validate against it but are now for v2.

## Import `graphql` types from `gatsby/graphql`

Import graphql types from `gatsby/graphql` to prevent `Schema must contain unique named types but contains multiple types named "<typename>"` errors. `gatsby/graphql` exports all builtin GraphQL types as well as `graphQLJSON` type.

```diff
-const { GraphQLString } = require(`graphql`)
+const { GraphQLString } = require(`gatsby/graphql`)
```

## Move Babel Configuration
The latest version of Gatsby uses Babel 7, which introduced [a new behavior for configuration lookup / resolution](https://github.com/babel/babel/issues/6766).  In the case where a _.babelrc_ file might have been used at the root of the project, like for configuring Jest, moving that Babel configuration into _jest.config.json_ will avoid any conflicts.

[This GitHub comment](https://github.com/facebook/jest/issues/1468#issuecomment-361260279) documents the steps needed to do that.

More information on Gatsby and Babel configuration available [here](/docs/babel/#how-to-use-a-custom-babelrc-file).
