docs/docs/programmatically-create-pages-from-data.md, before:

---
title: Creating Pages from Data Programmatically
---

Gatsby and its ecosystem of plugins provide all kinds of data through a
GraphQL interface. This guide will show how that data can be used to
programmatically create pages.

## Prerequisites

Though you can use any data source you'd like, this guide will show how to
create pages from Markdown files (following after the example introduced in
[earlier guides](/docs/adding-markdown-pages/)).

## Creating pages

The Gatsby Node API provides the
[`createPages`](/docs/node-apis/#createPages)
extension point which you'll use to add pages. This function will give you
access to the
[`createPage`](/docs/actions/#createPage) action
which is at the core of programmatically creating a page.

```js:title=gatsby-node.js
exports.createPages = async function ({ actions, graphql }) {
  const { data } = await graphql(`
    query {
      allMarkdownRemark {
        edges {
          node {
            fields {
              slug
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  `)
  // highlight-start
  data.allMarkdownRemark.edges.forEach(edge => {
    const slug = edge.node.fields.slug
    actions.createPage({
      path: slug,
      component: require.resolve(`./src/templates/blog-post.js`),
      context: { slug: slug },
    })
  })
  // highlight-end
}
```

For each page you want to create you must specify the `path` for visiting that
page, the `component` template used to render that page, and any `context`
you need in the component for rendering.

The `context` parameter is _optional_, though often times it will include a
unique identifier that can be used to query for associated data that will be
rendered to the page. All `context` values are made available to a template's
GraphQL queries as arguments prefaced with `$`, so from our example above the
`slug` property will become the `$slug` argument in our page query:

```js
export const query = graphql`
  query($slug: String!) {
    ...
  }
`
```

## Specifying a template

The `createPage` action requires that you specify the `component` template
that will be used to render the page. Here is an example of what the
referenced template could look like:

```jsx:title=blog-post.js
import React from "react"
import { graphql } from "gatsby"
import Layout from "../components/layout"

export default function BlogPost({ data }) {
  const post = data.markdownRemark
  return (
    <Layout>
      <div>
        <h1>{post.frontmatter.title}</h1>
        <div dangerouslySetInnerHTML={{ __html: post.html }} />
      </div>
    </Layout>
  )
}

export const query = graphql`
  query($slug: String!) {
    markdownRemark(fields: { slug: { eq: $slug } }) {
      html
      frontmatter {
        title
      }
    }
  }
`
```

Notice that you're able to query with the `$slug` value from your `context` as
an argument, which ensures that you're returning only the data that matches
that specific page. As a result, you can provide the `title` and `html` from
the matching `markdownRemark` record to your component. The `context` values
are also available as the `pageContext` prop in the template component itself.

## Not just Markdown

The
[`gatsby-transformer-remark`](/packages/gatsby-transformer-remark/)
plugin is just one of a multitude of Gatsby plugins that can provide data
through the GraphQL interface. Any of that data can be used to
programmatically create pages.

## Other resources

- [Example Repository](https://github.com/jbranchaud/gatsby-programmatic-pages)
- [Using Gatsby without GraphQL](/docs/using-gatsby-without-graphql/)
- [CodeSandbox example creating pages from 3rd party data](https://codesandbox.io/s/b84oz)

Commit message:

feat: File System Route API - General Availability (#27424)
Co-authored-by: Peter van der Zee <209817+pvdz@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Megan Sullivan <megan@gatsbyjs.com>
Co-authored-by: gatsbybot <mathews.kyle+gatsbybot@gmail.com>

docs/docs/programmatically-create-pages-from-data.md, after:

---
title: Creating Pages from Data Programmatically
---

Gatsby and its ecosystem of plugins provide all kinds of data through a
GraphQL interface. This guide will show how that data can be used to
programmatically create pages.

> **Note:** For most use cases you'll be able to use the [File System Route API](/docs/file-system-route-api/) to create pages. Please read on if you need more control over the page creation or consume data outside of Gatsby's GraphQL data layer.

## Prerequisites

Though you can use any data source you'd like, this guide will show how to
create pages from Markdown files (following after the example introduced in
[earlier guides](/docs/adding-markdown-pages/)).

## Creating pages

The Gatsby Node API provides the
[`createPages`](/docs/node-apis/#createPages)
extension point which you'll use to add pages. This function will give you
access to the
[`createPage`](/docs/actions/#createPage) action
which is at the core of programmatically creating a page.

```js:title=gatsby-node.js
exports.createPages = async function ({ actions, graphql }) {
  const { data } = await graphql(`
    query {
      allMarkdownRemark {
        edges {
          node {
            fields {
              slug
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  `)
  // highlight-start
  data.allMarkdownRemark.edges.forEach(edge => {
    const slug = edge.node.fields.slug
    actions.createPage({
      path: slug,
      component: require.resolve(`./src/templates/blog-post.js`),
      context: { slug: slug },
    })
  })
  // highlight-end
}
```

For each page you want to create you must specify the `path` for visiting that
page, the `component` template used to render that page, and any `context`
you need in the component for rendering.

The `context` parameter is _optional_, though often times it will include a
unique identifier that can be used to query for associated data that will be
rendered to the page. All `context` values are made available to a template's
GraphQL queries as arguments prefaced with `$`, so from our example above the
`slug` property will become the `$slug` argument in our page query:

```js
export const query = graphql`
  query($slug: String!) {
    ...
  }
`
```

## Specifying a template

The `createPage` action requires that you specify the `component` template
that will be used to render the page. Here is an example of what the
referenced template could look like:

```jsx:title=blog-post.js
import React from "react"
import { graphql } from "gatsby"
import Layout from "../components/layout"

export default function BlogPost({ data }) {
  const post = data.markdownRemark
  return (
    <Layout>
      <div>
        <h1>{post.frontmatter.title}</h1>
        <div dangerouslySetInnerHTML={{ __html: post.html }} />
      </div>
    </Layout>
  )
}

export const query = graphql`
  query($slug: String!) {
    markdownRemark(fields: { slug: { eq: $slug } }) {
      html
      frontmatter {
        title
      }
    }
  }
`
```

Notice that you're able to query with the `$slug` value from your `context` as
an argument, which ensures that you're returning only the data that matches
that specific page. As a result, you can provide the `title` and `html` from
the matching `markdownRemark` record to your component. The `context` values
are also available as the `pageContext` prop in the template component itself.

## Not just Markdown

The
[`gatsby-transformer-remark`](/packages/gatsby-transformer-remark/)
plugin is just one of a multitude of Gatsby plugins that can provide data
through the GraphQL interface. Any of that data can be used to
programmatically create pages.

## Other resources

- [Example Repository](https://github.com/jbranchaud/gatsby-programmatic-pages)
- [Using Gatsby without GraphQL](/docs/using-gatsby-without-graphql/)
- [CodeSandbox example creating pages from 3rd party data](https://codesandbox.io/s/b84oz)
