docs/docs/using-graphql-playground.md, before:

---
title: Using the GraphQL Playground
---

## Intro

This page will introduce you to an alternative to the current IDE for your GraphQL queries: [GraphQL Playground](https://github.com/prisma/graphql-playground).

## What is Prisma's GraphQL Playground?

GraphQL Playground is a way for you to interact with the data your sources and plugins add as schemas. You will be interacting with this data a lot and the Playground will help you greatly with exploring this data.

## Accessing the playground

To access this experimental feature utilizing GraphQL Playground with Gatsby, add `GATSBY_GRAPHQL_IDE` to your `develop` script in your `package.json`, like this:

```json
"develop": "GATSBY_GRAPHQL_IDE=playground gatsby develop",
```

Use `npm run develop` instead of `gatsby develop` and access it when the development server is running on `http://localhost:8000/___graphql`

To still be able to use `gatsby develop` you would require the dotenv package to your gatsby-config.js file and add an [environment variable](/docs/environment-variables/) file, typically called `.env.development`. Finally, add `GATSBY_GRAPHQL_IDE=playground` to the `.env.development` file.

![An image pointing out where to find the GraphQl schema](./images/playground-schema.png)

Commit message:

chore(docs): Updated with Windows Configuration (#20361)
* Updated with Windows Configuration

Added SET GATSBY_GRAPHQL_IDE=playground&gatsby develop as the configuration needed to make it work in Windows.

* Changed SET for cross-env

* Update docs/docs/using-graphql-playground.md

Tried it out and worked too

Co-Authored-By: Vladimir Razuvaev <vladimir.razuvaev@gmail.com>

Co-authored-by: LB <laurie@gatsbyjs.com>
Co-authored-by: Vladimir Razuvaev <vladimir.razuvaev@gmail.com>

docs/docs/using-graphql-playground.md, after:

---
title: Using the GraphQL Playground
---

## Intro

This page will introduce you to an alternative to the current IDE for your GraphQL queries: [GraphQL Playground](https://github.com/prisma/graphql-playground).

## What is Prisma's GraphQL Playground?

GraphQL Playground is a way for you to interact with the data your sources and plugins add as schemas. You will be interacting with this data a lot and the Playground will help you greatly with exploring this data.

## Accessing the playground

To access this experimental feature utilizing GraphQL Playground with Gatsby, add `GATSBY_GRAPHQL_IDE` to your `develop` script in your `package.json`, like this:

```json
"develop": "GATSBY_GRAPHQL_IDE=playground gatsby develop",
```

If you are on **Windows** then you should use:

```
"develop": "cross-env GATSBY_GRAPHQL_IDE=playground gatsby develop",
```

If you haven't installed **cross-env**, you can do it with:

```
npm install --save-dev cross-env
```

Use `npm run develop` instead of `gatsby develop` and access it when the development server is running on `http://localhost:8000/___graphql`

To still be able to use `gatsby develop` you would require the dotenv package to your gatsby-config.js file and add an [environment variable](/docs/environment-variables/) file, typically called `.env.development`. Finally, add `GATSBY_GRAPHQL_IDE=playground` to the `.env.development` file.

![An image pointing out where to find the GraphQl schema](./images/playground-schema.png)
