README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.gatsbyjs.com">
    <img alt="Gatsby" src="https://www.gatsbyjs.com/Gatsby-Monogram.svg" width="60" />
  </a>
</p>
<h1 align="center">
  Gatsby v3
</h1>

<h3 align="center">
  ⚛️ 📄 🚀
</h3>
<h3 align="center">
  Fast in every way that matters
</h3>
<p align="center">
  Gatsby is a free and open source framework based on React that helps developers build blazing fast websites and apps
</p>
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/master/LICENSE">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg" alt="Gatsby is released under the MIT license." />
  </a>
  <a href="https://circleci.com/gh/gatsbyjs/gatsby">
    <img src="https://circleci.com/gh/gatsbyjs/gatsby.svg?style=shield" alt="Current CircleCI build status." />
  </a>
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/gatsby">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/gatsby.svg" alt="Current npm package version." />
  </a>
  <a href="https://npmcharts.com/compare/gatsby?minimal=true">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/gatsby.svg" alt="Downloads per month on npm." />
  </a>
  <a href="https://npmcharts.com/compare/gatsby?minimal=true">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/dt/gatsby.svg" alt="Total downloads on npm." />
  </a>
  <a href="https://gatsbyjs.com/contributing/how-to-contribute/">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg" alt="PRs welcome!" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://twitter.com/intent/follow?screen_name=gatsbyjs">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/gatsbyjs.svg?label=Follow%20@gatsbyjs" alt="Follow @GatsbyJS" />
  </a>
</p>

<h3 align="center">
  <a href="https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/">Quickstart</a>
  <span> · </span>
  <a href="https://www.gatsbyjs.com/tutorial/">Tutorial</a>
  <span> · </span>
  <a href="https://www.gatsbyjs.com/plugins/">Plugins</a>
  <span> · </span>
  <a href="https://www.gatsbyjs.com/starters/">Starters</a>
  <span> · </span>
  <a href="https://www.gatsbyjs.com/showcase/">Showcase</a>
  <span> · </span>
  <a href="https://www.gatsbyjs.com/contributing/how-to-contribute/">Contribute</a>
  <br />
  Support: <a href="https://twitter.com/AskGatsbyJS">Twitter</a>, <a href="https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/discussions">Discussions</a>
  <span> & </span>
  <a href="https://gatsby.dev/discord">Discord</a>
</h3>

Gatsby is a modern web framework for blazing fast websites.

- **Go Beyond Static Websites.** Get all the benefits of static websites with none of the
  limitations. Gatsby sites are fully functional React apps, so you can create high-quality,
  dynamic web apps, from blogs to e-commerce sites to user dashboards.

- **Use a Modern Stack for Every Site.** No matter where the data comes from, Gatsby sites are
  built using React and GraphQL. Build a uniform workflow for you and your team, regardless of
  whether the data is coming from the same backend.

- **Load Data From Anywhere.** Gatsby pulls in data from any data source, whether it’s Markdown
  files, a headless CMS like Contentful or WordPress, or a REST or GraphQL API. Use source plugins
  to load your data, then develop using Gatsby’s uniform GraphQL interface.

- **Performance Is Baked In.** Ace your performance audits by default. Gatsby automates code
  splitting, image optimization, inlining critical styles, lazy-loading, prefetching resources,
  and more to ensure your site is fast — no manual tuning required.

- **Host at Scale for Pennies.** Gatsby sites don’t require servers, so you can host your entire
  site on a CDN for a fraction of the cost of a server-rendered site. Many Gatsby sites can be
  hosted entirely free on [Gatsby Cloud](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/cloud/) and other similar services.

[**Learn how to use Gatsby for your next project.**](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/)

## What’s In This Document

- [Get Up and Running in 5 Minutes](#-get-up-and-running-in-5-minutes)
- [Learning Gatsby](#-learning-gatsby)
- [Migration Guides](#-migration-guides)
- [How to Contribute](#-how-to-contribute)
- [License](#-license)
- [Thanks to Our Contributors](#-thanks)

## 🚀 Get Up and Running in 5 Minutes

You can get a new Gatsby site up and running on your local dev environment in 5 minutes with these four steps:

1. **Install the Gatsby CLI.**

   ```shell
   npm install -g gatsby-cli
   ```

2. **Create a Gatsby site from a Gatsby starter.**

   Get your Gatsby blog set up in a single command:

   ```shell
   # Create a new Gatsby site using the interactive setup wizard
   # Give it this name: My Gatsby site
   gatsby new
   ```

3. **Start the site in `develop` mode.**

   Next, move into your new site’s directory and start it up:

   ```shell
   cd my-gatsby-site/
   gatsby develop
   ```

4. **Open the source code and start editing!**

   Your site is now running at `http://localhost:8000`. Open the `my-gatsby-site` directory in your code editor of choice and edit `src/pages/index.js`. Save your changes, and the browser will update in real time!

At this point, you’ve got a fully functional Gatsby website. For additional information on how you can customize your Gatsby site, see our [plugins](https://gatsbyjs.com/plugins/) and [the official tutorial](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/tutorial/).

## 🎓 Learning Gatsby

Full documentation for Gatsby lives [on the website](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/).

- **For most developers, we recommend starting with our [in-depth tutorial for creating a site with Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/tutorial/).** It starts with zero assumptions about your level of ability and walks through every step of the process.

- **To dive straight into code samples head [to our documentation](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/).** In particular, check out the “<i>How-to Guides</i>”, “<i>Reference</i>”, and “<i>Conceptual Guides</i>” sections in the sidebar.

We welcome suggestions for improving our docs. See the [“how to contribute”](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/contributing/how-to-contribute/) documentation for more details.

**Start Learning Gatsby: [Follow the Tutorial](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/tutorial/) · [Read the Docs](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/)**

## 💼 Migration Guides

Already have a Gatsby site? These handy guides will help you add the improvements of Gatsby v3 to your site without starting from scratch!

- [Migrate from v2 to v3](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/reference/release-notes/migrating-from-v2-to-v3/)
- [Migrate from v1 to v2](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/reference/release-notes/migrating-from-v1-to-v2/)

## ❗ Code of Conduct

Gatsby is dedicated to building a welcoming, diverse, safe community. We expect everyone participating in the Gatsby community to abide by our [**Code of Conduct**](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/contributing/code-of-conduct/). Please read it. Please follow it. In the Gatsby community, we work hard to build each other up and create amazing things together. 💪💜

## 🤝 How to Contribute

Whether you're helping us fix bugs, improve the docs, or spread the word, we'd love to have you as part of the Gatsby community! :muscle::purple_heart:

Check out our [**Contributing Guide**](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/contributing/how-to-contribute/) for ideas on contributing and setup steps for getting our repositories up and running on your local machine.

### A note on how this repository is organized

This repository is a [monorepo](https://trunkbaseddevelopment.com/monorepos/) managed using [Lerna](https://github.com/lerna/lerna). This means there are [multiple packages](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/tree/master/packages) managed in this codebase, even though we publish them to NPM as separate packages.

### Contributing to Gatsby v2

We are currently only accepting bug fixes for Gatsby v2. No new features will be accepted.

## 📝 License

Licensed under the [MIT License](./LICENSE).

## 💜 Thanks

Thanks goes out to all our many contributors creating plugins, starters, videos, and blog posts. And a special appreciation for our community members helping with issues and PRs, or answering questions on Discord and GitHub Discussions.

A big part of what makes Gatsby great is each and every one of you in the community. Your contributions enrich the Gatsby experience and make it better every day.

Commit message:

chore(docs): Adding maintenance window for v2 (#30146)
Co-authored-by: Janson Hartliep <janson@gatsbyjs.com>
Co-authored-by: gatsbybot <mathews.kyle+gatsbybot@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Lennart <lekoarts@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.gatsbyjs.com">
    <img alt="Gatsby" src="https://www.gatsbyjs.com/Gatsby-Monogram.svg" width="60" />
  </a>
</p>
<h1 align="center">
  Gatsby v3
</h1>

<h3 align="center">
  ⚛️ 📄 🚀
</h3>
<h3 align="center">
  Fast in every way that matters
</h3>
<p align="center">
  Gatsby is a free and open source framework based on React that helps developers build blazing fast websites and apps
</p>
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/master/LICENSE">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg" alt="Gatsby is released under the MIT license." />
  </a>
  <a href="https://circleci.com/gh/gatsbyjs/gatsby">
    <img src="https://circleci.com/gh/gatsbyjs/gatsby.svg?style=shield" alt="Current CircleCI build status." />
  </a>
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/gatsby">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/gatsby.svg" alt="Current npm package version." />
  </a>
  <a href="https://npmcharts.com/compare/gatsby?minimal=true">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/gatsby.svg" alt="Downloads per month on npm." />
  </a>
  <a href="https://npmcharts.com/compare/gatsby?minimal=true">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/dt/gatsby.svg" alt="Total downloads on npm." />
  </a>
  <a href="https://gatsbyjs.com/contributing/how-to-contribute/">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg" alt="PRs welcome!" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://twitter.com/intent/follow?screen_name=gatsbyjs">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/gatsbyjs.svg?label=Follow%20@gatsbyjs" alt="Follow @GatsbyJS" />
  </a>
</p>

<h3 align="center">
  <a href="https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/">Quickstart</a>
  <span> · </span>
  <a href="https://www.gatsbyjs.com/tutorial/">Tutorial</a>
  <span> · </span>
  <a href="https://www.gatsbyjs.com/plugins/">Plugins</a>
  <span> · </span>
  <a href="https://www.gatsbyjs.com/starters/">Starters</a>
  <span> · </span>
  <a href="https://www.gatsbyjs.com/showcase/">Showcase</a>
  <span> · </span>
  <a href="https://www.gatsbyjs.com/contributing/how-to-contribute/">Contribute</a>
  <br />
  Support: <a href="https://twitter.com/AskGatsbyJS">Twitter</a>, <a href="https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/discussions">Discussions</a>
  <span> & </span>
  <a href="https://gatsby.dev/discord">Discord</a>
</h3>

Gatsby is a modern web framework for blazing fast websites.

- **Go Beyond Static Websites.** Get all the benefits of static websites with none of the
  limitations. Gatsby sites are fully functional React apps, so you can create high-quality,
  dynamic web apps, from blogs to e-commerce sites to user dashboards.

- **Use a Modern Stack for Every Site.** No matter where the data comes from, Gatsby sites are
  built using React and GraphQL. Build a uniform workflow for you and your team, regardless of
  whether the data is coming from the same backend.

- **Load Data From Anywhere.** Gatsby pulls in data from any data source, whether it’s Markdown
  files, a headless CMS like Contentful or WordPress, or a REST or GraphQL API. Use source plugins
  to load your data, then develop using Gatsby’s uniform GraphQL interface.

- **Performance Is Baked In.** Ace your performance audits by default. Gatsby automates code
  splitting, image optimization, inlining critical styles, lazy-loading, prefetching resources,
  and more to ensure your site is fast — no manual tuning required.

- **Host at Scale for Pennies.** Gatsby sites don’t require servers, so you can host your entire
  site on a CDN for a fraction of the cost of a server-rendered site. Many Gatsby sites can be
  hosted entirely free on [Gatsby Cloud](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/cloud/) and other similar services.

[**Learn how to use Gatsby for your next project.**](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/)

## What’s In This Document

- [Get Up and Running in 5 Minutes](#-get-up-and-running-in-5-minutes)
- [Learning Gatsby](#-learning-gatsby)
- [Migration Guides](#-migration-guides)
- [How to Contribute](#-how-to-contribute)
- [License](#-license)
- [Thanks to Our Contributors](#-thanks)

## 🚀 Get Up and Running in 5 Minutes

You can get a new Gatsby site up and running on your local dev environment in 5 minutes with these four steps:

1. **Install the Gatsby CLI.**

   ```shell
   npm install -g gatsby-cli
   ```

2. **Create a Gatsby site from a Gatsby starter.**

   Get your Gatsby blog set up in a single command:

   ```shell
   # Create a new Gatsby site using the interactive setup wizard
   # Give it this name: My Gatsby site
   gatsby new
   ```

3. **Start the site in `develop` mode.**

   Next, move into your new site’s directory and start it up:

   ```shell
   cd my-gatsby-site/
   gatsby develop
   ```

4. **Open the source code and start editing!**

   Your site is now running at `http://localhost:8000`. Open the `my-gatsby-site` directory in your code editor of choice and edit `src/pages/index.js`. Save your changes, and the browser will update in real time!

At this point, you’ve got a fully functional Gatsby website. For additional information on how you can customize your Gatsby site, see our [plugins](https://gatsbyjs.com/plugins/) and [the official tutorial](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/tutorial/).

## 🎓 Learning Gatsby

Full documentation for Gatsby lives [on the website](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/).

- **For most developers, we recommend starting with our [in-depth tutorial for creating a site with Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/tutorial/).** It starts with zero assumptions about your level of ability and walks through every step of the process.

- **To dive straight into code samples head [to our documentation](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/).** In particular, check out the “<i>How-to Guides</i>”, “<i>Reference</i>”, and “<i>Conceptual Guides</i>” sections in the sidebar.

We welcome suggestions for improving our docs. See the [“how to contribute”](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/contributing/how-to-contribute/) documentation for more details.

**Start Learning Gatsby: [Follow the Tutorial](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/tutorial/) · [Read the Docs](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/)**

## 💼 Migration Guides

Already have a Gatsby site? These handy guides will help you add the improvements of Gatsby v3 to your site without starting from scratch!

- [Migrate from v2 to v3](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/reference/release-notes/migrating-from-v2-to-v3/)
- [Migrate from v1 to v2](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/reference/release-notes/migrating-from-v1-to-v2/)

## ❗ Code of Conduct

Gatsby is dedicated to building a welcoming, diverse, safe community. We expect everyone participating in the Gatsby community to abide by our [**Code of Conduct**](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/contributing/code-of-conduct/). Please read it. Please follow it. In the Gatsby community, we work hard to build each other up and create amazing things together. 💪💜

## 🤝 How to Contribute

Whether you're helping us fix bugs, improve the docs, or spread the word, we'd love to have you as part of the Gatsby community! :muscle::purple_heart:

Check out our [**Contributing Guide**](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/contributing/how-to-contribute/) for ideas on contributing and setup steps for getting our repositories up and running on your local machine.

### A note on how this repository is organized

This repository is a [monorepo](https://trunkbaseddevelopment.com/monorepos/) managed using [Lerna](https://github.com/lerna/lerna). This means there are [multiple packages](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/tree/master/packages) managed in this codebase, even though we publish them to NPM as separate packages.

### Contributing to Gatsby v2

The maintenance window for Gatsby v2 closes on April 1, 2021.

- During this maintenance window, we will continue to address reported bugs in Gatsby v2.
- After the maintenance window closes, we will only accept critical security updates for Gatsby v2.

## 📝 License

Licensed under the [MIT License](./LICENSE).

## 💜 Thanks

Thanks goes out to all our many contributors creating plugins, starters, videos, and blog posts. And a special appreciation for our community members helping with issues and PRs, or answering questions on Discord and GitHub Discussions.

A big part of what makes Gatsby great is each and every one of you in the community. Your contributions enrich the Gatsby experience and make it better every day.
