docs/docs/how-to/custom-configuration/babel.md, before:

---
title: Babel
---

Gatsby uses the phenomenal project [Babel](https://babeljs.io/) to enable support for writing modern JavaScript — while still supporting older browsers.

## How to specify which browsers to support

Gatsby supports by default the last two versions of major browsers, IE 9+, as well as any browser that still has 1%+ browser share.

This means that your JavaScript is automatically compiled to ensure it works on older browsers. Polyfills are also automatically added — no more shipping code which mysteriously breaks on older browsers!

If you only target newer browsers, see the [Browser Support](/docs/how-to/custom-configuration/browser-support/) docs page for how to instruct Gatsby on which browsers you support and then Babel will start compiling for only these browsers.

## How to use a custom `.babelrc` file

Gatsby ships with a default `.babelrc` setup that should work for most sites. If you'd like to add custom Babel presets or plugins, you can create your own `.babelrc` at the root of your site, import [`babel-preset-gatsby`](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/tree/master/packages/babel-preset-gatsby), and add additional plugins, presets, and pass options to `babel-preset-gatsby`, e.g. `targets`.

```shell
npm install --save-dev babel-preset-gatsby
```

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
```json:title=.babelrc
{
  "plugins": [
    ["@babel/plugin-proposal-decorators", { "legacy": true }]
  ],
  "presets": [
    [
      "babel-preset-gatsby",
      {
        "targets": {
          "browsers": [">0.25%", "not dead"]
        }
      }
    ]
  ]
}
```
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

For more advanced configurations, you can also copy the defaults from [`babel-preset-gatsby`](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/tree/master/packages/babel-preset-gatsby) and customize them to suit your needs.

Commit message:

docs: Updates file name suggestion in babel.md (#31198)

docs/docs/how-to/custom-configuration/babel.md, after:

---
title: Babel
---

Gatsby uses the phenomenal project [Babel](https://babeljs.io/) to enable support for writing modern JavaScript — while still supporting older browsers.

## How to specify which browsers to support

Gatsby supports by default the last two versions of major browsers, IE 9+, as well as any browser that still has 1%+ browser share.

This means that your JavaScript is automatically compiled to ensure it works on older browsers. Polyfills are also automatically added — no more shipping code which mysteriously breaks on older browsers!

If you only target newer browsers, see the [Browser Support](/docs/how-to/custom-configuration/browser-support/) docs page for how to instruct Gatsby on which browsers you support and then Babel will start compiling for only these browsers.

## How to use a custom `.babelrc` file

Gatsby ships with a default `.babelrc` setup that should work for most sites. If you'd like to add custom Babel presets or plugins, you can create your own `.babelrc` at the root of your site, import [`babel-preset-gatsby`](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/tree/master/packages/babel-preset-gatsby), and add additional plugins, presets, and pass options to `babel-preset-gatsby`, e.g. `targets`. In case of using a [monorepo](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/configuration), you may want to call this file `babel.config.json`.

```shell
npm install --save-dev babel-preset-gatsby
```

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
```json:title=.babelrc
{
  "plugins": [
    ["@babel/plugin-proposal-decorators", { "legacy": true }]
  ],
  "presets": [
    [
      "babel-preset-gatsby",
      {
        "targets": {
          "browsers": [">0.25%", "not dead"]
        }
      }
    ]
  ]
}
```
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

For more advanced configurations, you can also copy the defaults from [`babel-preset-gatsby`](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/tree/master/packages/babel-preset-gatsby) and customize them to suit your needs.
