packages/gatsby-theme-blog/README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.gatsbyjs.org">
    <img alt="Gatsby" src="https://www.gatsbyjs.org/monogram.svg" width="60" />
  </a>
</p>
<h1 align="center">
  The Gatsby Blog theme
</h1>

A Gatsby theme for creating a blog.

## Installation

### For a new site

If you're creating a new site and want to use the blog theme, you can use the blog theme starter. This will generate a new site that pre-configures use of the blog theme.

```shell
gatsby new my-themed-blog https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-blog-theme
```

### For an existing site

If you already have a site you'd like to add the blog theme to, you can manually configure it.

1. Install the blog theme

```shell
npm install gatsby-theme-blog
```

2. Add the configuration to your `gatsby-config.js` file

```js
// gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    {
      resolve: `gatsby-theme-blog`,
      options: {
        // basePath defaults to `/`
        basePath: `/blog`,
      },
    },
  ],
}
```

3. Add blog posts to your site by creating `md` or `mdx` files inside `/content/posts`.

   > Note that if you've changed the default `contentPath` in the configuration, you'll want to add your markdown files in the directory specified by that path.

4. Run your site using `gatsby develop` and navigate to your blog posts. If you used the above configuration, your URL will be `http://localhost:8000/blog`

## Usage

### Theme options

| Key                      | Default value    | Description                                                                      |
| ------------------------ | ---------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `basePath`               | `/`              | Root url for all blog posts                                                      |
| `contentPath`            | `content/posts`  | Location of blog posts                                                           |
| `assetPath`              | `content/assets` | Location of assets                                                               |
| `mdxOtherwiseConfigured` | `false`          | Set this flag `true` if `gatsby-plugin-mdx` is already configured for your site. |

#### Example configuration

```js
// gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    {
      resolve: `gatsby-theme-blog`,
      options: {
        // basePath defaults to `/`
        basePath: `/blog`,
      },
    },
  ],
}
```

### Additional configuration

In addition to the theme options, there are a handful of items you can customize via the `siteMetadata` object in your site's `gatsby-config.js`

```js
// gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  siteMetadata: {
    // Used for the site title and SEO
    title: `My Blog Title`,
    // Used to provide alt text for your avatar
    author: `My Name`,
    // Used for SEO
    description: `My site description...`,
    // Used for social links in the root footer
    social: [
      {
        name: `Twitter`,
        url: `https://twitter.com/gatsbyjs`,
      },
      {
        name: `GitHub`,
        url: `https://github.com/gatsbyjs`,
      },
    ],
  },
}
```

### Blog Post Fields

The following are the defined blog post fields based on the node interface in the schema

| Field    | Type     |
| -------- | -------- |
| id       | String   |
| title    | String   |
| body     | String   |
| slug     | String   |
| date     | Date     |
| tags     | String[] |
| keywords | String[] |
| excerpt  | String   |

Commit message:

docs(gatsbt-theme-blog): add instructions on avatar image (#21987)
* docs(gatsbt-theme-blog): add instructions on avatar image

* Update packages/gatsby-theme-blog/README.md

Co-Authored-By: LB <laurie@gatsbyjs.com>

Co-authored-by: LB <laurie@gatsbyjs.com>

packages/gatsby-theme-blog/README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.gatsbyjs.org">
    <img alt="Gatsby" src="https://www.gatsbyjs.org/monogram.svg" width="60" />
  </a>
</p>
<h1 align="center">
  The Gatsby Blog theme
</h1>

A Gatsby theme for creating a blog.

## Installation

### For a new site

If you're creating a new site and want to use the blog theme, you can use the blog theme starter. This will generate a new site that pre-configures use of the blog theme.

```shell
gatsby new my-themed-blog https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-blog-theme
```

### For an existing site

If you already have a site you'd like to add the blog theme to, you can manually configure it.

1. Install the blog theme

```shell
npm install gatsby-theme-blog
```

2. Add the configuration to your `gatsby-config.js` file

```js
// gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    {
      resolve: `gatsby-theme-blog`,
      options: {
        // basePath defaults to `/`
        basePath: `/blog`,
      },
    },
  ],
}
```

3. Add blog posts to your site by creating `md` or `mdx` files inside `/content/posts`.

   > Note that if you've changed the default `contentPath` in the configuration, you'll want to add your markdown files in the directory specified by that path.

4. Add an image with the file name `avatar` (can be jpg or png) inside the `/assets` directory to include a small image next to the footer on every post page.

> Note that if you've changed the default `assetPath` in the configuration, you'll want to add your asset files in the directory specified by that path.

5. Run your site using `gatsby develop` and navigate to your blog posts. If you used the above configuration, your URL will be `http://localhost:8000/blog`

## Usage

### Theme options

| Key                      | Default value    | Description                                                                      |
| ------------------------ | ---------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `basePath`               | `/`              | Root url for all blog posts                                                      |
| `contentPath`            | `content/posts`  | Location of blog posts                                                           |
| `assetPath`              | `content/assets` | Location of assets                                                               |
| `mdxOtherwiseConfigured` | `false`          | Set this flag `true` if `gatsby-plugin-mdx` is already configured for your site. |

#### Example configuration

```js
// gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    {
      resolve: `gatsby-theme-blog`,
      options: {
        // basePath defaults to `/`
        basePath: `/blog`,
      },
    },
  ],
}
```

### Additional configuration

In addition to the theme options, there are a handful of items you can customize via the `siteMetadata` object in your site's `gatsby-config.js`

```js
// gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  siteMetadata: {
    // Used for the site title and SEO
    title: `My Blog Title`,
    // Used to provide alt text for your avatar
    author: `My Name`,
    // Used for SEO
    description: `My site description...`,
    // Used for social links in the root footer
    social: [
      {
        name: `Twitter`,
        url: `https://twitter.com/gatsbyjs`,
      },
      {
        name: `GitHub`,
        url: `https://github.com/gatsbyjs`,
      },
    ],
  },
}
```

### Blog Post Fields

The following are the defined blog post fields based on the node interface in the schema

| Field    | Type     |
| -------- | -------- |
| id       | String   |
| title    | String   |
| body     | String   |
| slug     | String   |
| date     | Date     |
| tags     | String[] |
| keywords | String[] |
| excerpt  | String   |
