docs/docs/themes/building-themes.md, before:

---
title: Building Themes
---

The quickest way to get up and running with a workspace for building themes is to use the official [`gatsby-starter-theme-workspace`](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/tree/master/themes/gatsby-starter-theme-workspace) starter.

To get started, run:

```shell
gatsby new my-theme gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-theme-workspace
```

This will generate a new project for you. The file tree will look like this:

```text
.
├── example
│   ├── src
│   │   └── pages
│   │       └── index.js
│   ├── gatsby-config.js
│   ├── package.json
│   └── README.md
├── gatsby-theme-minimal
│   ├── gatsby-config.js
│   ├── index.js
│   ├── package.json
│   └── README.md
├── .gitignore
├── package.json
├── README.md
└── yarn.lock
```

Yarn workspaces are a great way to set up a project for theme development because they support housing multiple packages in a single parent directory and link them together.

For Gatsby theme development, that means you can keep multiple themes and example sites together in a single project, and develop them locally.

> 💡 If you prefer, using `yarn link` or `npm link` are viable alternatives. In general, Gatsby recommends the yarn workspaces approach for building themes, and that's what the starter and this guide will reflect.

> 💡 The starter takes care of all of the configuration for developing a theme using yarn workspaces. If you're interested in more detail on this setup, check out [this blog post](/blog/2019-05-22-setting-up-yarn-workspaces-for-theme-development/).

### `package.json`

The `package.json` in the root of the new project is primarily responsible for setting up the yarn workspaces. In this case, there are two workspaces, `gatsby-theme-minimal` and `example`.

```json:title=my-theme/gatsby-config.js
{
  "name": "gatsby-starter-theme-workspace",
  "private": true,
  "version": "0.0.1",
  "main": "index.js",
  "license": "MIT",
  "scripts": {
    "build": "yarn workspace example build"
  },
  // highlight-start
  "workspaces": ["gatsby-theme-minimal", "example"]
  // highlight-end
}
```

### `/gatsby-theme-minimal`

The `/gatsby-theme-minimal` directory is the starting point of the new theme you'll develop.

Inside it you'll find:

- `gatsby-config.js`: An empty gatsby-config that you can use as a starting point for building functionality into your theme.
- `index.js`: Since themes also function as plugins, this is an empty file that Gatsby requires in order to use this theme as a plugin.
- `package.json`: A file listing the dependencies that your theme will pull in when people install it. Gatsby should be a peer dependency.

### `/example`

The `/example` directory is an example Gatsby site that installs and uses the local theme, `gatsby-theme-minimal`.

Inside it you'll find:

- `gatsby-config.js`: Specifies which theme to use and any other one-off configuration a site might need.
- `/src`: Contains source code such as custom pages or components that might live in a user's site.

## Further resources

### Gatsby Theme Authoring (Video course)

Watch the new [Egghead course on Authoring Gatsby Themes](https://egghead.io/courses/gatsby-theme-authoring).

### Building a Gatsby Theme (Tutorial)

Check out the [tutorial for building a Gatsby theme](/tutorial/building-a-theme). The step-by-step tutorial goes into much more detail than this docs guide. It was written as a companion to the [Egghead theme authoring course](https://egghead.io/courses/gatsby-theme-authoring), so they can be used together!

### Read through source code

Check out how some existing themes are built:

- The official [Gatsby blog theme](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/tree/master/themes/gatsby-theme-blog)
- The official [Gatsby notes theme](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/tree/master/themes/gatsby-theme-notes)
- The [Apollo themes](https://github.com/apollographql/gatsby-theme-apollo/tree/master/packages). (\_You might also be interested in the [Apollo case study on themes](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/blog/2019-07-03-using-themes-for-distributed-docs/) on the blog.)

Commit message:

fix(docs): miscellaneous docs reorg (#16100)
* link accessibility guide in building themes guide

* move theme api doc to api reference section, create redirect

* add theme tutorials to tutorial index page

* rearrange docs index page to highlight two main pathways

* fix: correct redirect for theme api doc

* Add link to theme API reference doc

docs/docs/themes/building-themes.md, after:

---
title: Building Themes
---

The quickest way to get up and running with a workspace for building themes is to use the official [`gatsby-starter-theme-workspace`](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/tree/master/themes/gatsby-starter-theme-workspace) starter.

To get started, run:

```shell
gatsby new my-theme gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-theme-workspace
```

This will generate a new project for you. The file tree will look like this:

```text
.
├── example
│   ├── src
│   │   └── pages
│   │       └── index.js
│   ├── gatsby-config.js
│   ├── package.json
│   └── README.md
├── gatsby-theme-minimal
│   ├── gatsby-config.js
│   ├── index.js
│   ├── package.json
│   └── README.md
├── .gitignore
├── package.json
├── README.md
└── yarn.lock
```

Yarn workspaces are a great way to set up a project for theme development because they support housing multiple packages in a single parent directory and link them together.

For Gatsby theme development, that means you can keep multiple themes and example sites together in a single project, and develop them locally.

> 💡 If you prefer, using `yarn link` or `npm link` are viable alternatives. In general, Gatsby recommends the yarn workspaces approach for building themes, and that's what the starter and this guide will reflect.

> 💡 The starter takes care of all of the configuration for developing a theme using yarn workspaces. If you're interested in more detail on this setup, check out [this blog post](/blog/2019-05-22-setting-up-yarn-workspaces-for-theme-development/).

### `package.json`

The `package.json` in the root of the new project is primarily responsible for setting up the yarn workspaces. In this case, there are two workspaces, `gatsby-theme-minimal` and `example`.

```json:title=my-theme/gatsby-config.js
{
  "name": "gatsby-starter-theme-workspace",
  "private": true,
  "version": "0.0.1",
  "main": "index.js",
  "license": "MIT",
  "scripts": {
    "build": "yarn workspace example build"
  },
  // highlight-start
  "workspaces": ["gatsby-theme-minimal", "example"]
  // highlight-end
}
```

### `/gatsby-theme-minimal`

The `/gatsby-theme-minimal` directory is the starting point of the new theme you'll develop.

Inside it you'll find:

- `gatsby-config.js`: An empty gatsby-config that you can use as a starting point for building functionality into your theme.
- `index.js`: Since themes also function as plugins, this is an empty file that Gatsby requires in order to use this theme as a plugin.
- `package.json`: A file listing the dependencies that your theme will pull in when people install it. Gatsby should be a peer dependency.

### `/example`

The `/example` directory is an example Gatsby site that installs and uses the local theme, `gatsby-theme-minimal`.

Inside it you'll find:

- `gatsby-config.js`: Specifies which theme to use and any other one-off configuration a site might need.
- `/src`: Contains source code such as custom pages or components that might live in a user's site.

## Further resources

### Gatsby Theme Authoring (Video course)

Watch the new [Egghead course on Authoring Gatsby Themes](https://egghead.io/courses/gatsby-theme-authoring).

### Building a Gatsby Theme (Tutorial)

Check out the [tutorial for building a Gatsby theme](/tutorial/building-a-theme). The step-by-step tutorial goes into much more detail than this docs guide. It was written as a companion to the [Egghead theme authoring course](https://egghead.io/courses/gatsby-theme-authoring), so they can be used together!

### Theme API reference

Check out the [Theme API documentation](/docs/theme-api/).

### Accessibility

A Gatsby theme is a Gatsby site, therefore building with accessibility in mind is critical. Check out these [tips on making your sites (and themes!) accessible](/docs/making-your-site-accessible/).

### Read through source code

Check out how some existing themes are built:

- The official [Gatsby blog theme](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/tree/master/themes/gatsby-theme-blog)
- The official [Gatsby notes theme](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/tree/master/themes/gatsby-theme-notes)
- The [Apollo themes](https://github.com/apollographql/gatsby-theme-apollo/tree/master/packages). (_You might also be interested in the [Apollo case study on themes](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/blog/2019-07-03-using-themes-for-distributed-docs/) on the blog._)
