docs/docs/themes/using-multiple-gatsby-themes.md, before:

---
title: Using Multiple Gatsby Themes
---

Gatsby themes are intended to be composable. This means you can install multiple themes alongside each other.

The `gatsby-starter-theme` composes two Gatsby themes: `gatsby-theme-blog` and `gatsby-theme-notes`

```shell
gatsby new my-blog https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-theme
```

The starter includes both theme packages (`gatsby-theme-blog` and `gatsby-theme-notes`) in the starter's `gatsby-config.js` file.

```javascript:title=gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    {
      resolve: `gatsby-theme-notes`,
      options: {
        mdx: true,
        basePath: `/notes`,
      },
    },
    // with gatsby-theme-ui, the last theme in the config
    // will override the theme-ui context from other themes
    { resolve: `gatsby-theme-blog` },
  ],
  siteMetadata: {
    title: `My site title`,
  },
}
```

In the default setup, a blog will be served from the root path (`/`), and the notes content will be served from `/notes`.

![The homepage of the site created by gatsby-theme-starter](../images/gatsby-theme-starter-home.png)

![The `notes` route of a site created by gatsby-theme starter](../images/gatsby-theme-starter-notes.png)

## Tutorial

For a step-by-step tutorial, see the ["Using Multiple Themes Together" tutorial](/tutorial/using-multiple-themes-together).

Commit message:

feat(docs): themes launch docs updates (#15360)
* replace building themes doc with coming soon note

* add coming soon note to multiple themes tutorial

* tweak name of example project in multiple themes doc

* facepalm.

* tweak multiple theme doc to match config

* add explicit note about running dev server

* updated config for composed themes starter

* theme docs sidebar launch

* add guidelist for theme section

docs/docs/themes/using-multiple-gatsby-themes.md, after:

---
title: Using Multiple Gatsby Themes
---

Gatsby themes are intended to be composable. This means you can install multiple themes alongside each other.

The `gatsby-starter-theme` composes two Gatsby themes: `gatsby-theme-blog` and `gatsby-theme-notes`

```shell
gatsby new my-notes-blog https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-theme
```

The starter includes both theme packages (`gatsby-theme-blog` and `gatsby-theme-notes`) in the starter's `gatsby-config.js` file.

```javascript:title=gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    {
      resolve: `gatsby-theme-notes`,
      options: {
        mdx: true,
        basePath: `/notes`,
      },
    },
    // with gatsby-plugin-theme-ui, the last theme in the config
    // will override the theme-ui context from other themes
    { resolve: `gatsby-theme-blog` },
  ],
  siteMetadata: {
    title: `Shadowed Site Title`,
  },
}
```

In the default setup, a blog will be served from the root path (`/`), and the notes content will be served from `/notes`.

Run `gatsby develop` to start a development server and view your the site:

![The homepage of the site created by gatsby-theme-starter](../images/gatsby-theme-starter-home.png)

![The `notes` route of a site created by gatsby-theme starter](../images/gatsby-theme-starter-notes.png)

## Tutorial

For a step-by-step tutorial, see the ["Using Multiple Themes Together" tutorial](/tutorial/using-multiple-themes-together).
