packages/gatsby-cli/README.md, before:

# gatsby-cli

The Gatsby command line interface (CLI). It is used to perform common functionality, such as creating a Gatsby application based on a starter, spinning up a hot-reloading local development server, and more!

Lets you create new Gatsby apps using
[Gatsby starters](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/gatsby-starters/). It also lets you run commands on sites. The tool runs code from the `gatsby` package installed locally.

The Gatsby CLI (`gatsby-cli`) is packaged as an executable that can be used globally. The Gatsby CLI is available via [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) and should be installed globally by running `npm install -g gatsby-cli` to use it locally.

Run `gatsby --help` for full help.

You can also use the `package.json` script variant of these commands, typically exposed _for you_ with most [starters](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/starters/). For example, if we want to make the [`gatsby develop`](#develop) command available in our application, we would open up `package.json` and add a script like so:

```json:title=package.json
{
  "scripts": {
    "develop": "gatsby develop"
  }
}
```

## CLI Commands

1. [new](#new)
2. [develop](#develop)
3. [build](#build)
4. [serve](#serve)
5. [clean](#clean)
6. [plugin](#plugin)
7. [info](#info)
8. [repl](#repl)

### `new`

```bash
gatsby new [<site-name> [<starter-url>]]
```

| Argument    | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| ----------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| site-name   | Your Gatsby site name, which is also used to create the project directory.                                                                                                                                                              |
| starter-url | A Gatsby starter URL or local file path. Defaults to [gatsby-starter-default](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-default); see the [Gatsby starters](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/gatsby-starters/) docs for more information. |

> Note: The `site-name` should only consist of letters and numbers. If you specify a `.`, `./` or a `<space>` in the name, `gatsby new` will throw an error.

#### Examples

- Create a Gatsby site named `my-awesome-site`, using the [default starter](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-default):

```bash
gatsby new my-awesome-site
```

- Create a Gatsby site named `my-awesome-blog-site`, using [gatsby-starter-blog](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/starters/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-blog/):

```bash
gatsby new my-awesome-blog-site https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-blog
```

- If you leave out both of the arguments, the CLI will run an interactive shell asking for these inputs:

```bash
gatsby new
? What is your project called? › my-gatsby-project
? What starter would you like to use? › - Use arrow-keys. Return to submit.
❯  gatsby-starter-default
   gatsby-starter-hello-world
   gatsby-starter-blog
   (Use a different starter)
```

See the [Gatsby starters docs](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/gatsby-starters/) for more details.

### `develop`

At the root of a Gatsby app run `gatsby develop` to start the Gatsby
development server.

#### Options

|     Option      | Description                                     |       Default        |
| :-------------: | ----------------------------------------------- | :------------------: |
| `-H`, `--host`  | Set host.                                       |     `localhost`      |
| `-p`, `--port`  | Set port.                                       | `env.PORT` or `8000` |
| `-o`, `--open`  | Open the site in your (default) browser for you |                      |
| `-S`, `--https` | Use HTTPS                                       |                      |

Follow the [Local HTTPS guide](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/local-https/)
to find out how you can set up an HTTPS development server using Gatsby.

### `build`

At the root of a Gatsby app run `gatsby build` to do a production build of a site.

#### Options

|            Option            | Description                                                                                                        |            Default            |
| :--------------------------: | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | :---------------------------: |
|       `--prefix-paths`       | Build site with link paths prefixed (set pathPrefix in your config)                                                | `env.PREFIX_PATHS` or `false` |
|        `--no-uglify`         | Build site without uglifying JS bundles (for debugging)                                                            |            `false`            |
|         `--profile`          | Build site with react profiling. See https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/profiling-site-performance-with-react-profiler/ |            `false`            |
| `--open-tracing-config-file` | Tracer configuration file (OpenTracing compatible). See https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/performance-tracing/         |                               |
| `--no-color`, `--no-colors`  | Disables colored terminal output                                                                                   |            `false`            |

For prefixing paths, most will want to use the CLI flag (`gatsby build --prefix-paths`). For environments where you can't pass the --prefix-paths flag (ie Gatsby Cloud) this provides another way to prefix paths.

### `serve`

At the root of a Gatsby app run `gatsby serve` to serve the production build of the site

#### Options

|      Option      | Description                                                                              |            Default            |
| :--------------: | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :---------------------------: |
|  `-H`, `--host`  | Set host. Defaults to localhost                                                          |                               |
|  `-p`, `--port`  | Set port. Defaults to 9000                                                               |                               |
|  `-o`, `--open`  | Open the site in your (default) browser for you                                          |                               |
| `--prefix-paths` | Serve site with link paths prefixed (if built with pathPrefix in your gatsby-config.js). | `env.PREFIX_PATHS` or `false` |

For prefixing paths, most will want to use the CLI flag (`gatsby build --prefix-paths`). For environments where you can't pass the --prefix-paths flag this provides another way to prefix paths.

### `clean`

At the root of a Gatsby app run `gatsby clean` to wipe out the cache (`.cache` folder) and `public` directories. This is useful **as a last resort** when your local project seems to have issues or content does not seem to be refreshing. Issues this may fix commonly include:

- Stale data, e.g. this file/resource/etc. isn't appearing
- GraphQL error, e.g. this GraphQL resource _should_ be present but is not
- Dependency issues, e.g. invalid version, cryptic errors in console, etc.
- Plugin issues, e.g. developing a local plugin and changes don't seem to be taking effect

### `plugin`

Run commands pertaining to gatsby plugins.

#### `docs`

`gatsby plugin docs`

Directs you to documentation about using and creating plugins.

### `info`

At the root of a Gatsby site run `gatsby info` to get helpful environment information which will be required when reporting a bug.

#### Options

|       Option        | Description                                             | Default |
| :-----------------: | ------------------------------------------------------- | :-----: |
| `-C`, `--clipboard` | Automagically copy environment information to clipboard | `false` |

### `repl`

Get a node repl with context of Gatsby environment

<!-- TODO: add repl documentation link when ready -->

Commit message:

Clarify prefix-paths variable. (#23309)
The line (one line, two places) I'm editing was copied from a comment in #21627 without the surrounding context. This edit provides that context.

Co-authored-by: gatsbybot <mathews.kyle+gatsbybot@gmail.com>

packages/gatsby-cli/README.md, after:

# gatsby-cli

The Gatsby command line interface (CLI). It is used to perform common functionality, such as creating a Gatsby application based on a starter, spinning up a hot-reloading local development server, and more!

Lets you create new Gatsby apps using
[Gatsby starters](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/gatsby-starters/). It also lets you run commands on sites. The tool runs code from the `gatsby` package installed locally.

The Gatsby CLI (`gatsby-cli`) is packaged as an executable that can be used globally. The Gatsby CLI is available via [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) and should be installed globally by running `npm install -g gatsby-cli` to use it locally.

Run `gatsby --help` for full help.

You can also use the `package.json` script variant of these commands, typically exposed _for you_ with most [starters](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/starters/). For example, if we want to make the [`gatsby develop`](#develop) command available in our application, we would open up `package.json` and add a script like so:

```json:title=package.json
{
  "scripts": {
    "develop": "gatsby develop"
  }
}
```

## CLI Commands

1. [new](#new)
2. [develop](#develop)
3. [build](#build)
4. [serve](#serve)
5. [clean](#clean)
6. [plugin](#plugin)
7. [info](#info)
8. [repl](#repl)

### `new`

```bash
gatsby new [<site-name> [<starter-url>]]
```

| Argument    | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| ----------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| site-name   | Your Gatsby site name, which is also used to create the project directory.                                                                                                                                                              |
| starter-url | A Gatsby starter URL or local file path. Defaults to [gatsby-starter-default](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-default); see the [Gatsby starters](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/gatsby-starters/) docs for more information. |

> Note: The `site-name` should only consist of letters and numbers. If you specify a `.`, `./` or a `<space>` in the name, `gatsby new` will throw an error.

#### Examples

- Create a Gatsby site named `my-awesome-site`, using the [default starter](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-default):

```bash
gatsby new my-awesome-site
```

- Create a Gatsby site named `my-awesome-blog-site`, using [gatsby-starter-blog](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/starters/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-blog/):

```bash
gatsby new my-awesome-blog-site https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-blog
```

- If you leave out both of the arguments, the CLI will run an interactive shell asking for these inputs:

```bash
gatsby new
? What is your project called? › my-gatsby-project
? What starter would you like to use? › - Use arrow-keys. Return to submit.
❯  gatsby-starter-default
   gatsby-starter-hello-world
   gatsby-starter-blog
   (Use a different starter)
```

See the [Gatsby starters docs](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/gatsby-starters/) for more details.

### `develop`

At the root of a Gatsby app run `gatsby develop` to start the Gatsby
development server.

#### Options

|     Option      | Description                                     |       Default        |
| :-------------: | ----------------------------------------------- | :------------------: |
| `-H`, `--host`  | Set host.                                       |     `localhost`      |
| `-p`, `--port`  | Set port.                                       | `env.PORT` or `8000` |
| `-o`, `--open`  | Open the site in your (default) browser for you |                      |
| `-S`, `--https` | Use HTTPS                                       |                      |

Follow the [Local HTTPS guide](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/local-https/)
to find out how you can set up an HTTPS development server using Gatsby.

### `build`

At the root of a Gatsby app run `gatsby build` to do a production build of a site.

#### Options

|            Option            | Description                                                                                                        |            Default            |
| :--------------------------: | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | :---------------------------: |
|       `--prefix-paths`       | Build site with link paths prefixed (set pathPrefix in your config)                                                | `env.PREFIX_PATHS` or `false` |
|        `--no-uglify`         | Build site without uglifying JS bundles (for debugging)                                                            |            `false`            |
|         `--profile`          | Build site with react profiling. See https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/profiling-site-performance-with-react-profiler/ |            `false`            |
| `--open-tracing-config-file` | Tracer configuration file (OpenTracing compatible). See https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/performance-tracing/         |                               |
| `--no-color`, `--no-colors`  | Disables colored terminal output                                                                                   |            `false`            |

For prefixing paths, most will want to use the CLI flag (`gatsby build --prefix-paths`). For environments where you can't pass the --prefix-paths flag (ie Gatsby Cloud),the environment variable `PREFIX_PATHS` can be set to `true` to provide another way to prefix paths.

### `serve`

At the root of a Gatsby app run `gatsby serve` to serve the production build of the site

#### Options

|      Option      | Description                                                                              |            Default            |
| :--------------: | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :---------------------------: |
|  `-H`, `--host`  | Set host. Defaults to localhost                                                          |                               |
|  `-p`, `--port`  | Set port. Defaults to 9000                                                               |                               |
|  `-o`, `--open`  | Open the site in your (default) browser for you                                          |                               |
| `--prefix-paths` | Serve site with link paths prefixed (if built with pathPrefix in your gatsby-config.js). | `env.PREFIX_PATHS` or `false` |

For prefixing paths, most will want to use the CLI flag (`gatsby build --prefix-paths`). For environments where you can't pass the --prefix-paths flag (ie Gatsby Cloud),the environment variable `PREFIX_PATHS` can be set to `true` to provide another way to prefix paths.

### `clean`

At the root of a Gatsby app run `gatsby clean` to wipe out the cache (`.cache` folder) and `public` directories. This is useful **as a last resort** when your local project seems to have issues or content does not seem to be refreshing. Issues this may fix commonly include:

- Stale data, e.g. this file/resource/etc. isn't appearing
- GraphQL error, e.g. this GraphQL resource _should_ be present but is not
- Dependency issues, e.g. invalid version, cryptic errors in console, etc.
- Plugin issues, e.g. developing a local plugin and changes don't seem to be taking effect

### `plugin`

Run commands pertaining to gatsby plugins.

#### `docs`

`gatsby plugin docs`

Directs you to documentation about using and creating plugins.

### `info`

At the root of a Gatsby site run `gatsby info` to get helpful environment information which will be required when reporting a bug.

#### Options

|       Option        | Description                                             | Default |
| :-----------------: | ------------------------------------------------------- | :-----: |
| `-C`, `--clipboard` | Automagically copy environment information to clipboard | `false` |

### `repl`

Get a node repl with context of Gatsby environment

<!-- TODO: add repl documentation link when ready -->
