docs/docs/how-to/previews-deploys-hosting/how-gatsby-works-with-github-pages.md, before:

---
title: How Gatsby Works with GitHub Pages
---

GitHub Pages is a service offered by GitHub that allows hosting for websites configured straight from the repository. A Gatsby site can be hosted on GitHub Pages with a few configurations to the codebase and the repository's settings.

You can publish your site on GitHub Pages several different ways:

- to a path like `username.github.io/reponame/` or `/docs`
- to a subdomain based on your username or organization name: `username.github.io` or `orgname.github.io`
- to the root subdomain at `username.github.io`, and then configured to use a custom domain

## Configuring the GitHub Pages source branch

You must select which branch will be deployed from your repository settings in GitHub for GitHub Pages to function. On GitHub:

1. Navigate to your site's repository.

2. Under the repository name, click Settings.

3. In the GitHub Pages section, use the Source drop-down to select `main` (for publishing to the root subdomain) or `gh-pages` (for publishing to a path like `/docs`) as your GitHub Pages publishing source.

4. Click Save.

## Installing the `gh-pages` package

The easiest way to push a Gatsby app to GitHub Pages is by using a package called [gh-pages](https://github.com/tschaub/gh-pages).

```shell
npm install gh-pages --save-dev
```

## Using a deploy script

A custom script in your `package.json` makes it easier to build your site and move the contents of the built files to the proper branch for GitHub Pages, this helps automate that process.

### Deploying to a path on GitHub Pages

For sites deployed at a path like `username.github.io/reponame/`, the `--prefix-paths` flag is used because your website will end up inside a folder like `username.github.io/reponame/`. You'll need to add your `/reponame` [path prefix](/docs/how-to/previews-deploys-hosting/path-prefix/) as an option to `gatsby-config.js`:

```js:title=gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  pathPrefix: "/reponame",
}
```

Then add a `deploy` script to `package.json` in your repository's codebase:

```json:title=package.json
{
  "scripts": {
    "deploy": "gatsby build --prefix-paths && gh-pages -d public"
  }
}
```

When you run `npm run deploy` all contents of the `public` folder will be moved to your repository's `gh-pages` branch. Make sure that your repository's settings has the `gh-pages` branch set as the source to deploy from.

**Note**: To select `main` or `gh-pages` as your publishing source, you must have the branch present in your repository. If you don't have a `main` or `gh-pages` branch, you can create them and then return to source settings to change your publishing source.

### Deploying to a GitHub Pages subdomain at github.io

For a repository named like `username.github.io`, you don't need to specify `pathPrefix` and your website needs to be pushed to the `main` branch.

> ⚠️ Keep in mind that GitHub Pages forces deployment of user/organization pages to the `main` branch. So if you use `main` for development you need to do one of these:
>
> - Change the default branch from `main` to something else, and use `main` as a site deployment directory only:
>   1. To create a new branch called `source` run this command:
>      `git checkout -b source main`
>   2. Change the default branch in your repository settings ("Branches" menu item) from `main` to `source`
> - Have a separate repository for your source code (so `username.github.io` is used only for deployment and not really for tracking your source code)

```json:title=package.json
{
  "scripts": {
    "deploy": "gatsby build && gh-pages -d public -b main"
  }
}
```

After running `npm run deploy` you should see your website at `username.github.io`

### Deploying to the root subdomain and using a custom domain

If you use a [custom domain](https://help.github.com/articles/using-a-custom-domain-with-github-pages/), don't add a `pathPrefix` as it will break navigation on your site. Path prefixing is only necessary when the site is _not_ at the root of the domain like with repository sites.

**Note**: Don't forget to add your [CNAME](https://help.github.com/articles/troubleshooting-custom-domains/#github-repository-setup-errors) file to the `static` directory.

### Deploying to GitHub Pages from a CI server

It's also possible to deploy your website to `gh-pages` through a CI server. This example uses Travis CI, a hosted Continuous Integration service, but other CI systems could work as well.

You can use the [gh-pages npm module](https://www.npmjs.com/package/gh-pages) to deploy. But first, you need to configure it with proper credentials so that `gh-pages` is able to push a new branch.

#### Obtain a GitHub token for authenticating with CI

To push changes from the CI system to GitHub, you'll need to authenticate. It's recommended to use [GitHub developer tokens](https://help.github.com/en/articles/creating-a-personal-access-token-for-the-command-line).

In GitHub go to your Account settings -> Developer settings -> Personal access tokens, and create a new token that provides the `repo` access permissions.

In [Travis's settings for the repository](https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/environment-variables/#defining-variables-in-repository-settings), add a new secret environment variable of the name `GH_TOKEN` with the value of the token copied from GitHub. Make sure you **DO NOT toggle the "display in build logs" setting to on** as the token should remain secret. Otherwise, strangers would be able to push to your repository (a big security issue).

#### Add script to deploy to GitHub Pages via CI

Update the Gatsby project's `package.json` to also include a `deploy` run script which invokes `gh-pages` with two important command-line arguments:

1. `-d public` - specifies the directory in which the built files exist and will be pushed as a source to GitHub Pages
2. `-r URL` - the GitHub repository URL, including the use of the secret GitHub token (as a secret environment variable) to be able to push changes to the `gh-pages` branch, in the form of `https://$GH_TOKEN@github.com/<github username>/<github repository name>.git`

Here's an example (be sure to update the user and repo names to your own):

```json
  "scripts": {
    "deploy": "gatsby build --prefix-paths && gh-pages -d public -r https://$GH_TOKEN@github.com/lirantal/dockly.git"
  }
```

#### Update .travis.yml configuration

The following `.travis.yml` configuration provides a reference:

```yaml
language: node_js
before_script:
  - npm install -g gatsby-cli
node_js:
  - "10"
deploy:
  provider: script
  # Note: change "docs" to the directory where your gatsby-site lives, if necessary
  script: cd docs/ && yarn install && yarn run deploy
  skip_cleanup: true
  on:
    branch: main
```

To break down the important bits here for deploying the Gatsby website from Travis to GitHub Pages:

1. `before_script` is used to install the Gatsby CLI so it can be used in the project's run script to build the Gatsby website
2. `deploy` will only fire when the build runs on the `main` branch, in which case it will fire off the deploy script. In the above example, the Gatsby site is located in a `docs/` directory. The script changes into that directory, installs all the website dependencies, and runs the deploy script as was set in the previous step.

Committing and pushing both the `.travis.yml` and `package.json` files to your base branch will be the final step in the process.

Commit message:

chore(docs): Update GitHub Pages doc (#29031)
Co-authored-by: Lennart <lekoarts@gmail.com>

docs/docs/how-to/previews-deploys-hosting/how-gatsby-works-with-github-pages.md, after:

---
title: How Gatsby Works with GitHub Pages
---

GitHub Pages is a service offered by GitHub that allows hosting for websites configured straight from the repository. A Gatsby site can be hosted on GitHub Pages with a few configurations to the codebase and the repository's settings.

You can publish your site on GitHub Pages several different ways:

- to a path like `username.github.io/reponame/` or `/docs`
- to a subdomain based on your username or organization name: `username.github.io` or `orgname.github.io`
- to the root subdomain at `username.github.io`, and then configured to use a custom domain

## Configuring the GitHub Pages source branch

You must select which branch will be deployed from your repository settings in GitHub for GitHub Pages to function. On GitHub:

1. Navigate to your site's repository.

2. Under the repository name, click Settings.

3. In the GitHub Pages section, use the Source drop-down to select `main` (for publishing to the root subdomain) or `gh-pages` (for publishing to a path like `/docs`) as your GitHub Pages publishing source.

4. Click Save.

## Installing the `gh-pages` package

The easiest way to push a Gatsby app to GitHub Pages is by using a package called [gh-pages](https://github.com/tschaub/gh-pages).

```shell
npm install gh-pages --save-dev
```

## Using a deploy script

A custom script in your `package.json` makes it easier to build your site and move the contents of the built files to the proper branch for GitHub Pages, this helps automate that process.

### Deploying to a path on GitHub Pages

For sites deployed at a path like `username.github.io/reponame/`, the `--prefix-paths` flag is used because your website will end up inside a folder like `username.github.io/reponame/`. You'll need to add your `/reponame` [path prefix](/docs/how-to/previews-deploys-hosting/path-prefix/) as an option to `gatsby-config.js`:

```js:title=gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  pathPrefix: "/reponame",
}
```

Then add a `deploy` script to `package.json` in your repository's codebase:

```json:title=package.json
{
  "scripts": {
    "deploy": "gatsby build --prefix-paths && gh-pages -d public"
  }
}
```

When you run `npm run deploy` all contents of the `public` folder will be moved to your repository's `gh-pages` branch. Make sure that your repository's settings has the `gh-pages` branch set as the source to deploy from.

**Note**: To select `main` or `gh-pages` as your publishing source, you must have the branch present in your repository. If you don't have a `main` or `gh-pages` branch, you can create them and then return to source settings to change your publishing source.

### Deploying to a GitHub Pages subdomain at github.io

For a repository named like `username.github.io`, you don't need to specify `pathPrefix` and your website needs to be pushed to the `main` branch.

> ⚠️ Keep in mind that GitHub Pages forces deployment of user/organization pages to the `main` branch. So if you use `main` for development you need to do one of these:
>
> - Change the default branch from `main` to something else, and use `main` as a site deployment directory only:
>   1. To create a new branch called `source` run this command:
>      `git checkout -b source main`
>   2. Change the default branch in your repository settings ("Branches" menu item) from `main` to `source`
> - **Note**: GitHub Pages lets you use any branch for deployment, see [this docs page](https://docs.github.com/en/pages/getting-started-with-github-pages/configuring-a-publishing-source-for-your-github-pages-site#choosing-a-publishing-source) on how to do this. This means you do not necessarily have to change your default branch.
> - Have a separate repository for your source code (so `username.github.io` is used only for deployment and not really for tracking your source code)

```json:title=package.json
{
  "scripts": {
    "deploy": "gatsby build && gh-pages -d public -b main"
  }
}
```

> If you are deploying to branch different to `main`, replace it with your deployment branch's name in the deploy script.

After running `npm run deploy` you should see your website at `username.github.io`

### Deploying to the root subdomain and using a custom domain

If you use a [custom domain](https://help.github.com/articles/using-a-custom-domain-with-github-pages/), don't add a `pathPrefix` as it will break navigation on your site. Path prefixing is only necessary when the site is _not_ at the root of the domain like with repository sites.

**Note**: Don't forget to add your [CNAME](https://help.github.com/articles/troubleshooting-custom-domains/#github-repository-setup-errors) file to the `static` directory.

### Deploying to GitHub Pages from a CI server

It's also possible to deploy your website to `gh-pages` through a CI server. This example uses Travis CI, a hosted Continuous Integration service, but other CI systems could work as well.

You can use the [gh-pages npm module](https://www.npmjs.com/package/gh-pages) to deploy. But first, you need to configure it with proper credentials so that `gh-pages` is able to push a new branch.

#### Obtain a GitHub token for authenticating with CI

To push changes from the CI system to GitHub, you'll need to authenticate. It's recommended to use [GitHub developer tokens](https://help.github.com/en/articles/creating-a-personal-access-token-for-the-command-line).

In GitHub go to your Account settings -> Developer settings -> Personal access tokens, and create a new token that provides the `repo` access permissions.

In [Travis's settings for the repository](https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/environment-variables/#defining-variables-in-repository-settings), add a new secret environment variable of the name `GH_TOKEN` with the value of the token copied from GitHub. Make sure you **DO NOT toggle the "display in build logs" setting to on** as the token should remain secret. Otherwise, strangers would be able to push to your repository (a big security issue).

#### Add script to deploy to GitHub Pages via CI

Update the Gatsby project's `package.json` to also include a `deploy` run script which invokes `gh-pages` with two important command-line arguments:

1. `-d public` - specifies the directory in which the built files exist and will be pushed as a source to GitHub Pages
2. `-r URL` - the GitHub repository URL, including the use of the secret GitHub token (as a secret environment variable) to be able to push changes to the `gh-pages` branch, in the form of `https://$GH_TOKEN@github.com/<github username>/<github repository name>.git`

Here's an example (be sure to update the user and repo names to your own):

```json
  "scripts": {
    "deploy": "gatsby build --prefix-paths && gh-pages -d public -r https://$GH_TOKEN@github.com/lirantal/dockly.git"
  }
```

#### Update .travis.yml configuration

The following `.travis.yml` configuration provides a reference:

```yaml
language: node_js
before_script:
  - npm install -g gatsby-cli
node_js:
  - "10"
deploy:
  provider: script
  # Note: change "docs" to the directory where your gatsby-site lives, if necessary
  script: cd docs/ && yarn install && yarn run deploy
  skip_cleanup: true
  on:
    branch: main
```

To break down the important bits here for deploying the Gatsby website from Travis to GitHub Pages:

1. `before_script` is used to install the Gatsby CLI so it can be used in the project's run script to build the Gatsby website
2. `deploy` will only fire when the build runs on the `main` branch, in which case it will fire off the deploy script. In the above example, the Gatsby site is located in a `docs/` directory. The script changes into that directory, installs all the website dependencies, and runs the deploy script as was set in the previous step.

Committing and pushing both the `.travis.yml` and `package.json` files to your base branch will be the final step in the process.
