packages/gatsby-plugin-netlify/README.md, before:

# gatsby-plugin-netlify

Generates a `_headers` file at the root of the public folder, to configure
[HTTP headers on netlify](https://www.netlify.com/docs/headers-and-basic-auth/).
Notably, you can immediately enable HTTP/2 server push of critical Gatsby assets
through the `Link` headers.

By default, the plugin will add HTTP/2 assets to server push the critical Gatsby
scripts (ones that have the `preload` attribute already). It will also add some
basic security headers. You can easily add or replace headers through the plugin
config.

## Install

`npm install --save gatsby-plugin-netlify`

## How to use

```javascript
// In your gatsby-config.js
plugins: [
  `gatsby-plugin-netlify`, // make sure to put last in the array
];
```

## Configuration

If you just need the critical assets, you don't need to add any additional
config. However, if you want to add headers, remove default headers, or
transform the given headers, you can use the following configuration options.

```javascript
plugins: [
  // make sure to put last in the array
  {
    resolve: `gatsby-plugin-netlify`,
    options: {
      headers: {}, // option to add more headers. `Link` headers are transformed by the below criteria
      allPageHeaders: [], // option to add headers for all pages. `Link` headers are transformed by the below criteria
      mergeSecurityHeaders: true, // boolean to turn off the default security headers
      mergeLinkHeaders: false, // boolean to turn off the default gatsby js headers (disabled by default, until gzip is fixed for server push)
      mergeCachingHeaders: true, // boolean to turn off the default caching headers
      transformHeaders: (headers, path) => headers, // optional transform for manipulating headers under each path (e.g.sorting), etc.
    },
  },
];
```

### Headers

The headers object represents a JS version of the
[netlify `_headers` file format](https://www.netlify.com/docs/headers-and-basic-auth/).
You should pass in a object with string keys (representing the paths) and an
array of strings for each header.

An example:

```javascript
{
  options: {
    headers: {
      "/*": [
        "Basic-Auth: someuser:somepassword anotheruser:anotherpassword",
      ],
      "/my-page": [
        // matching headers (by type) are replaced by netlify with more specific routes
        "Basic-Auth: differentuser:differentpassword",
      ],
    },
  }
}
```

Link paths are specially handed by this plugin. Since most files are processed
and cache-busted through Gatsby (with a file hash), the plugin will transform
any base file names to the hashed variants. If the file is not hashed, it will
ensure the path is valid relative to the output `public` folder. You should be
able to reference assets imported through javascript in the `static` folder.

Do not specify the public path in the config, as the plugin will provide it for
you.

The netlify `_headers` file does not inherit headers, and it will replace any
matching headers it finds in more specific routes. For example, if you add a
link to the the root wildcard path (`/*`), it will be replaced by any more
specific path. If you want a resource to put linked across the site, you will
have to add to every path. To make this easier, the plugin provides the
`allPageHeaders` option to inject the same headers on every path.

```javascript
{
  options: {
    allPageHeaders: [
      "Link: </static/my-logo.png>; rel=preload; as=image",
    ],
    headers: {
      "/*": [
        "Basic-Auth: someuser:somepassword anotheruser:anotherpassword",
      ],
    },
  }
}
```

You can validate the `_headers` config through the
[netlify playground app](https://play.netlify.com/headers).

Commit message:

Documenting redirects (#3127)
* Documenting redirects

* Update README.md

packages/gatsby-plugin-netlify/README.md, after:

# gatsby-plugin-netlify

Automatically generates a `_headers` file and a `_redirects` file at the root of the public folder to configure
[HTTP headers](https://www.netlify.com/docs/headers-and-basic-auth/) and [redirects](https://www.netlify.com/docs/redirects/) on Netlify.

Notably, you can immediately enable HTTP/2 server push of critical Gatsby assets
through the `Link` headers.

By default, the plugin will add HTTP/2 assets to server push the critical Gatsby
scripts (ones that have the `preload` attribute already). It will also add some
basic security headers. You can easily add or replace headers through the plugin
config.

## Install

`npm install --save gatsby-plugin-netlify`

## How to use

```javascript
// In your gatsby-config.js
plugins: [
  `gatsby-plugin-netlify`, // make sure to put last in the array
];
```

## Configuration

If you just need the critical assets, you don't need to add any additional
config. However, if you want to add headers, remove default headers, or
transform the given headers, you can use the following configuration options.

```javascript
plugins: [
  // make sure to put last in the array
  {
    resolve: `gatsby-plugin-netlify`,
    options: {
      headers: {}, // option to add more headers. `Link` headers are transformed by the below criteria
      allPageHeaders: [], // option to add headers for all pages. `Link` headers are transformed by the below criteria
      mergeSecurityHeaders: true, // boolean to turn off the default security headers
      mergeLinkHeaders: false, // boolean to turn off the default gatsby js headers (disabled by default, until gzip is fixed for server push)
      mergeCachingHeaders: true, // boolean to turn off the default caching headers
      transformHeaders: (headers, path) => headers, // optional transform for manipulating headers under each path (e.g.sorting), etc.
    },
  },
];
```

### Headers

The headers object represents a JS version of the
[Netlify `_headers` file format](https://www.netlify.com/docs/headers-and-basic-auth/).
You should pass in a object with string keys (representing the paths) and an
array of strings for each header.

An example:

```javascript
{
  options: {
    headers: {
      "/*": [
        "Basic-Auth: someuser:somepassword anotheruser:anotherpassword",
      ],
      "/my-page": [
        // matching headers (by type) are replaced by netlify with more specific routes
        "Basic-Auth: differentuser:differentpassword",
      ],
    },
  }
}
```

Link paths are specially handed by this plugin. Since most files are processed
and cache-busted through Gatsby (with a file hash), the plugin will transform
any base file names to the hashed variants. If the file is not hashed, it will
ensure the path is valid relative to the output `public` folder. You should be
able to reference assets imported through javascript in the `static` folder.

Do not specify the public path in the config, as the plugin will provide it for
you.

The Netlify `_headers` file does not inherit headers, and it will replace any
matching headers it finds in more specific routes. For example, if you add a
link to the the root wildcard path (`/*`), it will be replaced by any more
specific path. If you want a resource to put linked across the site, you will
have to add to every path. To make this easier, the plugin provides the
`allPageHeaders` option to inject the same headers on every path.

```javascript
{
  options: {
    allPageHeaders: [
      "Link: </static/my-logo.png>; rel=preload; as=image",
    ],
    headers: {
      "/*": [
        "Basic-Auth: someuser:somepassword anotheruser:anotherpassword",
      ],
    },
  }
}
```

You can validate the `_headers` config through the
[Netlify playground app](https://play.netlify.com/headers).

### Redirects

You can create redirects using the [`createRedirect`](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/bound-action-creators/#createRedirect) action. 

An example:

```javascript
createRedirect({ fromPath: '/old-url', toPath: '/new-url', isPermanent: true })
createRedirect({ fromPath: '/url', toPath: '/zn-CH/url', Language: 'zn' })
```

You can also create a `_redirects` file in the `static` folder for the same affect. Any programmatically created redirects will be appended to the file.

```sh
# my manually set redirects
/home              /
/blog/my-post.php  /blog/my-post
```

You can validate the `_redirects` config through the
[Netlify playground app](https://play.netlify.com/redirects).
