docs/blog/gatsby-v1.md, before:

---
title: "Announcing Gatsby 1.0.0 🎉🎉🎉"
date: 2017-07-06
author: "Kyle Mathews"
image: "images/container-ship-leaving.jpg"
showImageInArticle: false
excerpt: Gatsby is your friendly, blazing fast static site generator for React. And after nearly a year of research, prototyping, and testing, Gatsby v1 is ready for action.
---

Gatsby is your friendly, blazing fast static site generator for React. And after
nearly a year of research, prototyping, and testing, Gatsby v1 is ready for
action.

Static site generators offer many benefits over traditional dynamic website
frameworks — _better performance, higher security, lower cost of scaling, and a
better developer experience._

In v1, Gatsby blazes new ground for static site generators by enabling rich
integrations with CMSs like Contentful, Wordpress, and Drupal, and a suite of
features, on by default, that make your sites startlingly fast — route-based
code splitting, service workers, offline support, and more.

Gatsby means no more compromising between developers, designers, and authors.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">😲Gatsby now integrates multiple data sources, splits code, supports offline, lots new plugins... amazing!!  <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/reactjs?src=hash">#reactjs</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/staticsitegenerator?src=hash">#staticsitegenerator</a> <a href="https://t.co/i80wYgnwhb">https://t.co/i80wYgnwhb</a></p>&mdash; Christian Mund (@krist) <a href="https://twitter.com/krist/status/882953204119556097">July 6, 2017</a></blockquote>

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">I made this website with <a href="https://twitter.com/gatsbyjs">@gatsbyjs</a> and I&#39;m totally in love with it <a href="https://t.co/TZA064O3s0">https://t.co/TZA064O3s0</a> React SSGs are the future</p>&mdash; Charlotte Dann (@charlotte_dann) <a href="https://twitter.com/charlotte_dann/status/882596284116480000">July 5, 2017</a></blockquote>

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Super excited about the next version of <a href="https://twitter.com/gatsbyjs">@gatsbyjs</a>. The first GraphQL-powered static site generator as far as I know! <a href="https://t.co/poh4S9RSJH">https://t.co/poh4S9RSJH</a></p>&mdash; Sacha Greif (@SachaGreif) <a href="https://twitter.com/SachaGreif/status/841058065856192512">March 12, 2017</a></blockquote>

## Gatsby is growing like crazy

In the last year, Gatsby community and usage have exploded. Milestones reached:

- 196 code contributors on GitHub (with many more helping in
  [our chat room on Discord](https://discord.gg/0ZcbPKXt5bVoxkfV)).
- 10,000 stars on GitHub
- 1000 followers on Twitter
- 500,000 NPM downloads (100,000 in the last month!!)

![Gatsby npm downloads year over year](./images/gatsby-npm-downloads.png)

## Cool sites built with Gatsby

- Segment [relaunched their blog on Gatsby](https://segment.com/blog/)
- The life insurance startup Fabric built their
  [marketing site _and_ web app using Gatsby](https://meetfabric.com/)
- JavaScript consultancy
  [Formidable built their website on Gatsby](https://formidable.com/)

![screenshots of above sites](images/site-screenshots.png)

And you're on of course a Gatsby website 😛

## The three questions that guide Gatsby's design

Gatsby started, like all the best projects do, as a spark of curiosity — "I
wonder if I could create a tool for building static websites with React?".

I'd been using React to build web apps for 1.5 years at that point and loved how
easy React's component model made it to build complex apps and wanted that same
model for building websites.

In a week of intense coding, I prototyped the first version of Gatsby
([see my talk at React conf to hear more of the story](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RFkNRKL6ZoE))
and open sourced this 2 years ago.

1000s of sites and 10,000 stars later, it seems clear that tools for building
static React sites are useful.

But in many conversations among community members building Gatsby sites, two
more questions kept coming up.

1.  How could we _query_ data from _anywhere_ and have that data show up in our
    pages **without** any custom scripting?
2.  How should a website framework work for an _internet dominated by smartphones
    on unreliable networks_ — an internet vastly different and larger than the
    one frameworks were designed for a decade ago?

## Plugin system

![container ship leaving port symbolizing of course GATSBY 1.0 HAS SHIPPED!!!](./images/container-ship-leaving.jpg)_Gatsby
v1 heads out to sea delivering components to ports far and wide_

The first building block for answering to these questions was a
[plugin system](/docs/plugins/).

Wordpress & Jekyll are both great examples of open source communities with
robust plugins ecosystems.

Plugins help accelerate developing websites as you can build on what others have
done and help collaborate with others on basic building blocks

Gatsby's plugin system lets you hook into
[Gatsby's lifecycle APIs](/docs/gatsby-lifecycle-apis/) everywhere from events
during the bootstrap and build processes and in the browser.

There are already many
[official Gatsby plugins](/docs/plugins/#official-plugins) built—all distributed
as individual NPM packages. It is easy to create your own plugins for internal
projects and for contributing back to Gatsby.

Plugins can:

- add support for webpack loaders such as Sass, Less
- add drop-in support for lightweight React-compatible frameworks
  [Preact](https://preactjs.com/) and [Inferno](https://infernojs.org/)
- add a sitemap or RSS feed
- add [Google Analytics](/packages/gatsby-plugin-google-analytics/)
- ...and much more!

## GraphQL-based data processing layer

Plugins also drive the new GraphQL data processing layer. This new system
enables rich integrations with CMSs like Contentful, Wordpress, and Drupal along
with other remote and local sources.

In Gatsby v0, (like pretty much every static site generator) data was processed
then _pushed_ into templates to be rendered into HTML. This is a straight-forward pattern
and works great for many use cases. But when you start working on more complex
sites, you really start to miss the flexibility of a database-driven site. With
a database, all your data is available to query against in any fashion you'd
like. Whatever bits of data you need to assemble a page, you can _pull_ in. You
want to create author pages showing their bio and last 5 posts? It's just a
query away.

We wanted this same flexibility for Gatsby. So for 1.0, the Gatsby data team has
built a new data processing layer which converts your data (whether from local
files or remote sources) into a _GraphQL schema_ which you can query against
like a database.

Every Gatsby page can have a GraphQL query which tells Gatsby what data is
required for that page. The data layer runs the GraphQL queries during
development and at build time and writes out a JSON file with the result of the
query. This JSON file is then loaded alongside React code and injected into the
React component as props.

Because we know at build-time what data is needed for every page, we can easily
pre-fetch page data meaning even very complex, data-heavy pages load almost
instantly.

This pattern of _colocating_ your queries next to your views is copied from the
[Relay data framework from Facebook](https://facebook.github.io/relay/).
Colocation makes it easy to fully understand your views as everything necessary
for that view is fully defined there.

An example of how this works in practice.

Say we had a markdown file that looked like:

```markdown
---
title: A sweet post
date: 2017-02-23
---

This is my sweet blog post. **Cool!**
```

In our site, we would write a React component which acts as a template for all
the blog posts. Included with the component is an exported `pageQuery`.

```jsx
// A basic React component for rendering a blog page.
import React from "react"

class BlogPostTemplate extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <div>
        <h1>{this.props.data.markdownRemark.frontmatter.title}</h1>
        <small>{this.props.data.markdownRemark.frontmatter.date}</small>
        <div
          dangerouslySetInnerHTML={{
            __html: this.props.data.markdownRemark.html,
          }}
        />
      </div>
    )
  }
}

export default BlogPostTemplate

export const pageQuery = graphql`
  query BlogPost($slug: String!) {
    markdownRemark(slug: { eq: $slug }) {
      # Get the markdown body compiled to HTML.
      html
      frontmatter {
        title
        # Transform the date at build time!
        date(formatString: "MMM D, YYYY")
      }
    }
  }
`
```

All data sourcing and transforming is plugin-driven. So in time, any imaginable
data source and potential ways of transforming its data will be an `npm install`
away.

For the markdown ecosystem there's already a robust set of plugins including
[adding syntax highlighting with PrismJS](/packages/gatsby-remark-prismjs/) and
[resizing images referenced in markdown files](/packages/gatsby-remark-images/)
so they're mobile ready.

There's also source plugins written for
[Contentful](/packages/gatsby-source-contentful/),
[Wordpress](/packages/gatsby-source-wordpress/),
[Drupal](/packages/gatsby-source-drupal/),
[Hacker News](/packages/gatsby-source-hacker-news/) (really 😛), and more as
well as transformer plugins for
[markdown](/packages/gatsby-transformer-remark/),
[JSON](/packages/gatsby-transformer-json/),
[YAML](/packages/gatsby-transformer-yaml/),
[JSDoc](/packages/gatsby-transformer-documentationjs/), React prop-types, and
[images](/packages/gatsby-plugin-sharp/). We're collecting a list of additional
source/transformer plugins that'd be useful to have over at
https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/1199

These plugins are easy to write (somewhat similar to webpack loaders) so we
expect to see the list of plugins grow rapidly.

## Building for the next billion internet users

As
[Benedict Evans has noted](http://ben-evans.com/benedictevans/2015/5/13/the-smartphone-and-the-sun),
the next billion people poised to come online will be using the internet almost
exclusively through smartphones.

Smartphones with decent specs (as good or better than the Moto G4), a great
browser, but _without_ a reliable internet connection.

Gatsby uses modern web performance ideas (e.g. the
[PRPL Pattern](/docs/prpl-pattern/)) developed by the Google Chrome Developer
Relations team and others to help websites work well on modern browsers with
unreliable networks.

Sites built with Gatsby run as much as possible in the client so regardless of
the network conditions—good, bad, or nonexistent—things will keep working. When
a page loads, Gatsby immediately starts prefetching resources for pages nearby
so that when a user clicks on a link, the new page loads instantly.

Many of the top e-commerce websites in areas where people are coming online for
the first time are developing their websites using these techniques.

Read Google's case studies on:

- [Flipkart (India)](https://developers.google.com/web/showcase/2016/flipkart)
- [Konga (Nigeria)](https://developers.google.com/web/showcase/2016/konga)
- [Housing.com (India)](https://developers.google.com/web/showcase/2016/housing)

## Service worker and offline support

Service workers are perhaps the most exciting technology that's come to the web
in the past several years. It makes possible (finally!) sophisticated client
caching plus true offline support. We've added excellent support to Gatsby for
Service Workers and a great offline experience. If you're using Chrome or
Firefox, this site loads and works offline! _Service workers make your site much
more resilient against bad networks_. If someone loads your site on a train and
goes through a tunnel, you won't lose them as they'll still be able to keep
clicking around.

## Route-based code splitting

Many sites generate one JavaScript bundle for the _entire_ site. Which means
someone loading your frontpage loads far more code than is necessary which is
bad then users get frustrated when site isn't responsive to their clicks and
touches while the code loads.

Gatsby 1.0 initially only loads the code necessary for the page you're on. As
you navigate around, Gatsby loads in the code needed for each route.

This means that one page with heavy imports:

```javascript
import d3 from "d3"
import threejs from "react-threejs"
```

...won't affect the performance of the rest of the site.

This is particularly helpful for teams of people collaborating on a site with
pages with very different technical and business requirements. Different parts
of the site can evolve independently of each other.

One client I'm working with on Gatsby 1.0 (a stealth startup in San Francisco)
is using Gatsby to build both their marketing site _and_ SaaS app within the
_same Gatsby codebase_.

The marketing pages of their site are built using markdown and React components
along with a modern css-in-js library
[Glamor](https://github.com/threepointone/glamor) for styling. The SaaS portion
uses [Redux](http://redux.js.org/) to communicate with their Django API.

The marketing portion of the site loads quickly with minimal JavaScript. When a
potential customer goes to sign-up for the app, there's no _awkward jump from
the marketing website to the web app_—just a simple page change which seamlessly
loads in the needed JavaScript. The _team is sharing components and styles
across the site_ without stepping on each others shoes as they rapidly iterate
on features.

## Ending note

Gatsby is just getting started. We're really looking forward to working with
you! [See you on GitHub!](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby) 👋

Commit message:

chore(docs): Fix case of WordPress. (#18264)

docs/blog/gatsby-v1.md, after:

---
title: "Announcing Gatsby 1.0.0 🎉🎉🎉"
date: 2017-07-06
author: "Kyle Mathews"
image: "images/container-ship-leaving.jpg"
showImageInArticle: false
excerpt: Gatsby is your friendly, blazing fast static site generator for React. And after nearly a year of research, prototyping, and testing, Gatsby v1 is ready for action.
---

Gatsby is your friendly, blazing fast static site generator for React. And after
nearly a year of research, prototyping, and testing, Gatsby v1 is ready for
action.

Static site generators offer many benefits over traditional dynamic website
frameworks — _better performance, higher security, lower cost of scaling, and a
better developer experience._

In v1, Gatsby blazes new ground for static site generators by enabling rich
integrations with CMSs like Contentful, WordPress, and Drupal, and a suite of
features, on by default, that make your sites startlingly fast — route-based
code splitting, service workers, offline support, and more.

Gatsby means no more compromising between developers, designers, and authors.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">😲Gatsby now integrates multiple data sources, splits code, supports offline, lots new plugins... amazing!!  <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/reactjs?src=hash">#reactjs</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/staticsitegenerator?src=hash">#staticsitegenerator</a> <a href="https://t.co/i80wYgnwhb">https://t.co/i80wYgnwhb</a></p>&mdash; Christian Mund (@krist) <a href="https://twitter.com/krist/status/882953204119556097">July 6, 2017</a></blockquote>

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">I made this website with <a href="https://twitter.com/gatsbyjs">@gatsbyjs</a> and I&#39;m totally in love with it <a href="https://t.co/TZA064O3s0">https://t.co/TZA064O3s0</a> React SSGs are the future</p>&mdash; Charlotte Dann (@charlotte_dann) <a href="https://twitter.com/charlotte_dann/status/882596284116480000">July 5, 2017</a></blockquote>

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Super excited about the next version of <a href="https://twitter.com/gatsbyjs">@gatsbyjs</a>. The first GraphQL-powered static site generator as far as I know! <a href="https://t.co/poh4S9RSJH">https://t.co/poh4S9RSJH</a></p>&mdash; Sacha Greif (@SachaGreif) <a href="https://twitter.com/SachaGreif/status/841058065856192512">March 12, 2017</a></blockquote>

## Gatsby is growing like crazy

In the last year, Gatsby community and usage have exploded. Milestones reached:

- 196 code contributors on GitHub (with many more helping in
  [our chat room on Discord](https://discord.gg/0ZcbPKXt5bVoxkfV)).
- 10,000 stars on GitHub
- 1000 followers on Twitter
- 500,000 NPM downloads (100,000 in the last month!!)

![Gatsby npm downloads year over year](./images/gatsby-npm-downloads.png)

## Cool sites built with Gatsby

- Segment [relaunched their blog on Gatsby](https://segment.com/blog/)
- The life insurance startup Fabric built their
  [marketing site _and_ web app using Gatsby](https://meetfabric.com/)
- JavaScript consultancy
  [Formidable built their website on Gatsby](https://formidable.com/)

![screenshots of above sites](images/site-screenshots.png)

And you're on of course a Gatsby website 😛

## The three questions that guide Gatsby's design

Gatsby started, like all the best projects do, as a spark of curiosity — "I
wonder if I could create a tool for building static websites with React?".

I'd been using React to build web apps for 1.5 years at that point and loved how
easy React's component model made it to build complex apps and wanted that same
model for building websites.

In a week of intense coding, I prototyped the first version of Gatsby
([see my talk at React conf to hear more of the story](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RFkNRKL6ZoE))
and open sourced this 2 years ago.

1000s of sites and 10,000 stars later, it seems clear that tools for building
static React sites are useful.

But in many conversations among community members building Gatsby sites, two
more questions kept coming up.

1.  How could we _query_ data from _anywhere_ and have that data show up in our
    pages **without** any custom scripting?
2.  How should a website framework work for an _internet dominated by smartphones
    on unreliable networks_ — an internet vastly different and larger than the
    one frameworks were designed for a decade ago?

## Plugin system

![container ship leaving port symbolizing of course GATSBY 1.0 HAS SHIPPED!!!](./images/container-ship-leaving.jpg)_Gatsby
v1 heads out to sea delivering components to ports far and wide_

The first building block for answering to these questions was a
[plugin system](/docs/plugins/).

WordPress & Jekyll are both great examples of open source communities with
robust plugins ecosystems.

Plugins help accelerate developing websites as you can build on what others have
done and help collaborate with others on basic building blocks

Gatsby's plugin system lets you hook into
[Gatsby's lifecycle APIs](/docs/gatsby-lifecycle-apis/) everywhere from events
during the bootstrap and build processes and in the browser.

There are already many
[official Gatsby plugins](/docs/plugins/#official-plugins) built—all distributed
as individual NPM packages. It is easy to create your own plugins for internal
projects and for contributing back to Gatsby.

Plugins can:

- add support for webpack loaders such as Sass, Less
- add drop-in support for lightweight React-compatible frameworks
  [Preact](https://preactjs.com/) and [Inferno](https://infernojs.org/)
- add a sitemap or RSS feed
- add [Google Analytics](/packages/gatsby-plugin-google-analytics/)
- ...and much more!

## GraphQL-based data processing layer

Plugins also drive the new GraphQL data processing layer. This new system
enables rich integrations with CMSs like Contentful, WordPress, and Drupal along
with other remote and local sources.

In Gatsby v0, (like pretty much every static site generator) data was processed
then _pushed_ into templates to be rendered into HTML. This is a straight-forward pattern
and works great for many use cases. But when you start working on more complex
sites, you really start to miss the flexibility of a database-driven site. With
a database, all your data is available to query against in any fashion you'd
like. Whatever bits of data you need to assemble a page, you can _pull_ in. You
want to create author pages showing their bio and last 5 posts? It's just a
query away.

We wanted this same flexibility for Gatsby. So for 1.0, the Gatsby data team has
built a new data processing layer which converts your data (whether from local
files or remote sources) into a _GraphQL schema_ which you can query against
like a database.

Every Gatsby page can have a GraphQL query which tells Gatsby what data is
required for that page. The data layer runs the GraphQL queries during
development and at build time and writes out a JSON file with the result of the
query. This JSON file is then loaded alongside React code and injected into the
React component as props.

Because we know at build-time what data is needed for every page, we can easily
pre-fetch page data meaning even very complex, data-heavy pages load almost
instantly.

This pattern of _colocating_ your queries next to your views is copied from the
[Relay data framework from Facebook](https://facebook.github.io/relay/).
Colocation makes it easy to fully understand your views as everything necessary
for that view is fully defined there.

An example of how this works in practice.

Say we had a markdown file that looked like:

```markdown
---
title: A sweet post
date: 2017-02-23
---

This is my sweet blog post. **Cool!**
```

In our site, we would write a React component which acts as a template for all
the blog posts. Included with the component is an exported `pageQuery`.

```jsx
// A basic React component for rendering a blog page.
import React from "react"

class BlogPostTemplate extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <div>
        <h1>{this.props.data.markdownRemark.frontmatter.title}</h1>
        <small>{this.props.data.markdownRemark.frontmatter.date}</small>
        <div
          dangerouslySetInnerHTML={{
            __html: this.props.data.markdownRemark.html,
          }}
        />
      </div>
    )
  }
}

export default BlogPostTemplate

export const pageQuery = graphql`
  query BlogPost($slug: String!) {
    markdownRemark(slug: { eq: $slug }) {
      # Get the markdown body compiled to HTML.
      html
      frontmatter {
        title
        # Transform the date at build time!
        date(formatString: "MMM D, YYYY")
      }
    }
  }
`
```

All data sourcing and transforming is plugin-driven. So in time, any imaginable
data source and potential ways of transforming its data will be an `npm install`
away.

For the markdown ecosystem there's already a robust set of plugins including
[adding syntax highlighting with PrismJS](/packages/gatsby-remark-prismjs/) and
[resizing images referenced in markdown files](/packages/gatsby-remark-images/)
so they're mobile ready.

There's also source plugins written for
[Contentful](/packages/gatsby-source-contentful/),
[WordPress](/packages/gatsby-source-wordpress/),
[Drupal](/packages/gatsby-source-drupal/),
[Hacker News](/packages/gatsby-source-hacker-news/) (really 😛), and more as
well as transformer plugins for
[markdown](/packages/gatsby-transformer-remark/),
[JSON](/packages/gatsby-transformer-json/),
[YAML](/packages/gatsby-transformer-yaml/),
[JSDoc](/packages/gatsby-transformer-documentationjs/), React prop-types, and
[images](/packages/gatsby-plugin-sharp/). We're collecting a list of additional
source/transformer plugins that'd be useful to have over at
https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/1199

These plugins are easy to write (somewhat similar to webpack loaders) so we
expect to see the list of plugins grow rapidly.

## Building for the next billion internet users

As
[Benedict Evans has noted](http://ben-evans.com/benedictevans/2015/5/13/the-smartphone-and-the-sun),
the next billion people poised to come online will be using the internet almost
exclusively through smartphones.

Smartphones with decent specs (as good or better than the Moto G4), a great
browser, but _without_ a reliable internet connection.

Gatsby uses modern web performance ideas (e.g. the
[PRPL Pattern](/docs/prpl-pattern/)) developed by the Google Chrome Developer
Relations team and others to help websites work well on modern browsers with
unreliable networks.

Sites built with Gatsby run as much as possible in the client so regardless of
the network conditions—good, bad, or nonexistent—things will keep working. When
a page loads, Gatsby immediately starts prefetching resources for pages nearby
so that when a user clicks on a link, the new page loads instantly.

Many of the top e-commerce websites in areas where people are coming online for
the first time are developing their websites using these techniques.

Read Google's case studies on:

- [Flipkart (India)](https://developers.google.com/web/showcase/2016/flipkart)
- [Konga (Nigeria)](https://developers.google.com/web/showcase/2016/konga)
- [Housing.com (India)](https://developers.google.com/web/showcase/2016/housing)

## Service worker and offline support

Service workers are perhaps the most exciting technology that's come to the web
in the past several years. It makes possible (finally!) sophisticated client
caching plus true offline support. We've added excellent support to Gatsby for
Service Workers and a great offline experience. If you're using Chrome or
Firefox, this site loads and works offline! _Service workers make your site much
more resilient against bad networks_. If someone loads your site on a train and
goes through a tunnel, you won't lose them as they'll still be able to keep
clicking around.

## Route-based code splitting

Many sites generate one JavaScript bundle for the _entire_ site. Which means
someone loading your frontpage loads far more code than is necessary which is
bad then users get frustrated when site isn't responsive to their clicks and
touches while the code loads.

Gatsby 1.0 initially only loads the code necessary for the page you're on. As
you navigate around, Gatsby loads in the code needed for each route.

This means that one page with heavy imports:

```javascript
import d3 from "d3"
import threejs from "react-threejs"
```

...won't affect the performance of the rest of the site.

This is particularly helpful for teams of people collaborating on a site with
pages with very different technical and business requirements. Different parts
of the site can evolve independently of each other.

One client I'm working with on Gatsby 1.0 (a stealth startup in San Francisco)
is using Gatsby to build both their marketing site _and_ SaaS app within the
_same Gatsby codebase_.

The marketing pages of their site are built using markdown and React components
along with a modern css-in-js library
[Glamor](https://github.com/threepointone/glamor) for styling. The SaaS portion
uses [Redux](http://redux.js.org/) to communicate with their Django API.

The marketing portion of the site loads quickly with minimal JavaScript. When a
potential customer goes to sign-up for the app, there's no _awkward jump from
the marketing website to the web app_—just a simple page change which seamlessly
loads in the needed JavaScript. The _team is sharing components and styles
across the site_ without stepping on each others shoes as they rapidly iterate
on features.

## Ending note

Gatsby is just getting started. We're really looking forward to working with
you! [See you on GitHub!](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby) 👋
