packages/gatsby-recipes/README.md, before:

# Gatsby Recipes

Gatsby Recipes is framework for automating common Gatsby tasks. Recipes are MDX
files which, when run by our custom React renderer, perform common actions like installing
NPM packages, installing plugins, creating pages, etc.

It's designed to be extensible so new capabilities can be added which allow
Recipes to automate more things.

We chose [MDX](https://mdxjs.com/) to allow for a literate programming style of writing recipes which
enables us to port our dozens of recipes from
https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/recipes/ as well as in the future, entire
tutorials.

[Read more about Recipes on the launch blog post](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/blog/2020-04-15-announcing-gatsby-recipes/)

There's an umbrella issue for testing / using Recipes during its incubation stage.

Follow the issue for updates!

https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/22991

## Get set up for running Recipes

Recipes is a new rapidly developing feature. To use it, upgrade your global gatsby-cli package to the latest.

```shell
npm install -g gatsby-cli@latest
```

To confirm that this worked, run `gatsby --help` in your terminal. The output should show the recipes command.

### Running an example recipe

Now you can test out recipes! Start with a recipe for installing [Emotion](https://emotion.sh/docs/introduction) by following these steps:

1. Create a new Hello World Gatsby site:

```shell
gatsby new try-emotion https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-hello-world
```

1. Go to the project directory you created:

```shell
cd try-emotion
```

1. Now you can run the `emotion` recipe with this command:

```shell
gatsby recipes emotion
```

![Terminal showing "gatsby recipes emotion" output](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1424573/79452177-f3362f00-7fa4-11ea-903a-e28472bf95b6.png)

You can see a list of other recipes to run by running `gatsby recipes`

![Terminal showing recipes list](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1424573/79452254-14971b00-7fa5-11ea-9bdf-021c341afb10.png)

## Developing Recipes

### An example MDX recipe

Here's how you would write the `gatsby recipes emotion` recipe you just ran:

```mdx
# Setup Gatsby with Emotion

[Emotion](https://emotion.sh/) is a powerful CSS-in-JS library that supports both inline CSS styles and styled components. You can use each styling feature individually or together in the same file.

<!-- use three dashes to separate steps of the recipe -->

---

Install necessary NPM packages

<!-- refer to the API in this doc to see what APIs are available, like `NPMPackage` -->

<NPMPackage name="gatsby-plugin-emotion" />
<NPMPackage name="@emotion/core" />
<NPMPackage name="@emotion/styled" />

---

Install the Emotion plugin in gatsby-config.js

<GatsbyPlugin name="gatsby-plugin-emotion" />

---

Sweet, now it's ready to go.

Let's also write out an example page you can use to play
with Emotion.

<File
  path="src/pages/emotion-example.js"
  content="https://gist.githubusercontent.com/KyleAMathews/323bacd551df46e8e7b6146cbf827d0b/raw/5c60f168f30c505cff1ff2433e69dabe27ae9738/sample-emotion.js"
/>

---

Read more about Emotion on the official Emotion docs site:

https://emotion.sh/docs/introduction
```

You can browse the [source of the official recipes](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/tree/master/packages/gatsby-recipes/recipes). The [recipes umbrella issue](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/22991) also has a number of recipes posted by community members.

### How to run recipes

You can run built-in recipes, ones you write locally, and ones people have posted online.

To run a local recipe, make sure to start the path to the recipe with a period like:

```shell
gatsby recipes ./my-cool-recipe.mdx
```

To run a remote recipe, copy the path to the recipe and run it e.g.

```shell
gatsby recipes https://example.com/sweet-recipe.mdx
```

## External learning resources

- A free 6 min eggheadio [collection](https://egghead.io/playlists/getting-started-with-gatsbyjs-recipes-c79a) by [Khaled Garbaya](https://twitter.com/khaled_garbaya)

## Recipe API

### `<GatsbyPlugin>`

Installs a Gatsby Plugin in the site's `gatsby-config.js`.

```jsx
<GatsbyPlugin
  name="gatsby-source-filesystem"
  key="src/pages"
  options={{
    name: `src pages directory`,
    path: `src/pages`,
  }}
/>
```

#### props

- **name**: name of the plugin
- **options**: object with options to be added to the plugin declaration in `gatsby-config.js`. JavaScript code is not _yet_ supported in options e.g. `process.env.API_TOKEN`. This is being worked on. For now only simple values like strings and numbers are supported.
- **key**: string used to distinguish between multiple plugin instances

### `<GatsbyShadowFile>`

```jsx
<GatsbyShadowFile theme="gatsby-theme-blog" path="src/components/seo.js" />
```

#### props

- **theme**: the name of the theme (or plugin) which provides the file you'd like to shadow
- **path**: the path to the file within the theme. E.g. the example file above lives at `node_modules/gatsby-theme-blog/src/components/seo.js`

### `<NPMPackage>`

```jsx
<NPMPackage name="lodash" version="latest" />
```

#### props

- **name**: name of the package to install
- **version**: defaults to latest
- **dependencyType**: defaults to `production`. Other options include `development`

### `<NPMPackageJson>`

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
```jsx
<NPMPackageJson
  name="lint-staged"
  value={{
     "src/**/*.js": [
      "jest --findRelatedTests"
    ],
  }}
/>
```
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

#### props

- **name**: name of the property to add to the package.json
- **value**: the value assigned to the property. can be an object or a string.

### `<NPMScript>`

```jsx
<NPMScript name="test" command="jest" />
```

#### props

- **name**: name of the command
- **command**: the command that's run when the script is called

### `<File>`

```jsx
<File
  path="test.md"
  content="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/KyleAMathews/test-recipes/master/gatsby-recipe-jest.mdx"
/>
```

#### props

- **path**: path to the file that should be created. The path is local to the root of the Node.js project (where the `package.json` is)
- **content**: URL to the content that should be written to the path. Eventually we'll support directly putting content here after some fixes to MDX.

> Note that this content is stored in a [GitHub gist](https://gist.github.com/). When linking to a gist you'll want to click on the "Raw" button and copy the URL from that page.

### `<Directory>`

```jsx
<Directory path="test" />
```

#### props

- **path**: path to the directory that should be created. The path is local to the root of the Node.js project (where the `package.json` is)

## How to set up your development environment to work on Gatsby Recipes core

The Gatsby recipes codebase consists of the core framework, code for each resource, and the MDX source.

### Work on Resources & the core framework

First [follow the instructions on setting up a local Gatsby dev environment](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/contributing/setting-up-your-local-dev-environment/).

If you want to fix a bug in a resource or extend it in some way, typically you'll be working against the tests for that resource.

In your terminal, start a jest watch process against the resource you're working on e.g. for GatsbyPlugin:

```shell
GATSBY_RECIPES_NO_COLOR=true jest --testPathPattern "src/.*plugin.test" --watch
```

You can create test recipes that you run in a test site. You'll need to [use `gatsby-dev-cli` for this.](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/contributing/setting-up-your-local-dev-environment/#gatsby-functional-changes).

One note, as you'll be testing changes to the Gatsby CLI — instead of running the global gatsby-cli package (i.e. what you'd
run by typing `gatsby`, you'll want to run the version copied over by `gatsby-dev-cli` by running `./node_modules/.bin/gatsby`.

When debugging the CLI, you may run into errors without stacktraces. In order
to work around that, you can use the node inspector:

```sh
DEBUG=true node --inspect-brk ./node_modules/.bin/gatsby recipes ./test.mdx
```

Then, open up Chrome and click the node icon in dev tools.

To see log output from the Recipes graphql server, start the Recipes API in one terminal `node node_modules/gatsby-recipes/dist/graphql-server/server.js` and then in another terminal run your recipe with `RECIPES_DEV_MODE=true` set as an env variable.

### Official recipes

MDX source for the official recipes lives at [https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/tree/master/packages/gatsby-recipes/recipes](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/tree/master/packages/gatsby-recipes/recipes).

We welcome PRs for new recipes and fixes/improvements to existing recipes.

When you add a new recipe, please also add it to the recipes list at [https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/05151c006974b7636b00f0cd608fac89ddaa1c08/packages/gatsby-recipes/src/cli.js#L60](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/05151c006974b7636b00f0cd608fac89ddaa1c08/packages/gatsby-recipes/src/cli.js#L60).

## FAQ / common issues

### Q) My recipe is combining steps instead of running them separately!

We use the `---` break syntax from Markdown to separate steps.

One quirk with it is for it to work, it must have an empty line above it.

So this will work:

```mdx
# Recipes

---

a step

<File src="something.txt" content="something" />
```

But this won't

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
```mdx
# Recipes
---

a step

<File src="something.txt" content="something" />
```
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

### Q) What kind of recipe should I write?

If you’d like to write a recipe, there are a few great places to get an idea:

- Think of a task that took you more time than other tasks in the last Gatsby site you built. Is there a way to automate any part of that task?
- Look at this list of recipes in the Gatsby docs. Many of these can be partially or fully automated through creating a recipe `mdx` file. https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/recipes/
- community members have posted a number of recipes in the [recipes umbrella issue](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/22991). You can browse their ideas to find inspiration for new recipes to write.

Commit message:

fix(gatsby-recipe): let resources declare dependencies & validate recipes & ensure dependencies installed first (#26386)
* Validate plans that any inter-resource dependencies are satisfied in the plan

* Pause execution of resource with dependencies while installing until its dependency is ready

* Fix lint problem

* Only set an NPMPackage as a dependency if the plugin isn't local

* Track when there's blocked resources and wait to return

* Add todo

* Show dependency errors inline in plan

* Don't reject every 100ms, just check on updates from other resources finishing

* Show dependency errors on install

* Try again

packages/gatsby-recipes/README.md, after:

# Gatsby Recipes

Gatsby Recipes is framework for automating common Gatsby tasks. Recipes are MDX
files which, when run by our custom React renderer, perform common actions like installing
NPM packages, installing plugins, creating pages, etc.

It's designed to be extensible so new capabilities can be added which allow
Recipes to automate more things.

We chose [MDX](https://mdxjs.com/) to allow for a literate programming style of writing recipes which
enables us to port our dozens of recipes from
https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/recipes/ as well as in the future, entire
tutorials.

[Read more about Recipes on the launch blog post](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/blog/2020-04-15-announcing-gatsby-recipes/)

There's an umbrella issue for testing / using Recipes during its incubation stage.

Follow the issue for updates!

https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/22991

## Get set up for running Recipes

Recipes is a new rapidly developing feature. To use it, upgrade your global gatsby-cli package to the latest.

```shell
npm install -g gatsby-cli@latest
```

To confirm that this worked, run `gatsby --help` in your terminal. The output should show the recipes command.

### Running an example recipe

Now you can test out recipes! Start with a recipe for installing [Emotion](https://emotion.sh/docs/introduction) by following these steps:

1. Create a new Hello World Gatsby site:

```shell
gatsby new try-emotion https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-hello-world
```

1. Go to the project directory you created:

```shell
cd try-emotion
```

1. Now you can run the `emotion` recipe with this command:

```shell
gatsby recipes emotion
```

![Terminal showing "gatsby recipes emotion" output](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1424573/79452177-f3362f00-7fa4-11ea-903a-e28472bf95b6.png)

You can see a list of other recipes to run by running `gatsby recipes`

![Terminal showing recipes list](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1424573/79452254-14971b00-7fa5-11ea-9bdf-021c341afb10.png)

## Developing Recipes

### An example MDX recipe

Here's how you would write the `gatsby recipes emotion` recipe you just ran:

```mdx
# Setup Gatsby with Emotion

[Emotion](https://emotion.sh/) is a powerful CSS-in-JS library that supports both inline CSS styles and styled components. You can use each styling feature individually or together in the same file.

<!-- use three dashes to separate steps of the recipe -->

---

Install necessary NPM packages

<!-- refer to the API in this doc to see what APIs are available, like `NPMPackage` -->

<NPMPackage name="gatsby-plugin-emotion" />
<NPMPackage name="@emotion/core" />
<NPMPackage name="@emotion/styled" />

---

Install the Emotion plugin in gatsby-config.js

<GatsbyPlugin name="gatsby-plugin-emotion" />

---

Sweet, now it's ready to go.

Let's also write out an example page you can use to play
with Emotion.

<File
  path="src/pages/emotion-example.js"
  content="https://gist.githubusercontent.com/KyleAMathews/323bacd551df46e8e7b6146cbf827d0b/raw/5c60f168f30c505cff1ff2433e69dabe27ae9738/sample-emotion.js"
/>

---

Read more about Emotion on the official Emotion docs site:

https://emotion.sh/docs/introduction
```

You can browse the [source of the official recipes](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/tree/master/packages/gatsby-recipes/recipes). The [recipes umbrella issue](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/22991) also has a number of recipes posted by community members.

### How to run recipes

You can run built-in recipes, ones you write locally, and ones people have posted online.

To run a local recipe, make sure to start the path to the recipe with a period like:

```shell
gatsby recipes ./my-cool-recipe.mdx
```

To run a remote recipe, copy the path to the recipe and run it e.g.

```shell
gatsby recipes https://example.com/sweet-recipe.mdx
```

## External learning resources

- A free 6 min eggheadio [collection](https://egghead.io/playlists/getting-started-with-gatsbyjs-recipes-c79a) by [Khaled Garbaya](https://twitter.com/khaled_garbaya)

## Recipe API

### `<GatsbyPlugin>`

Installs a Gatsby Plugin in the site's `gatsby-config.js`.

```jsx
<GatsbyPlugin
  name="gatsby-source-filesystem"
  key="src/pages"
  options={{
    name: `src pages directory`,
    path: `src/pages`,
  }}
/>
```

#### props

- **name**: name of the plugin
- **options**: object with options to be added to the plugin declaration in `gatsby-config.js`. JavaScript code is not _yet_ supported in options e.g. `process.env.API_TOKEN`. This is being worked on. For now only simple values like strings and numbers are supported.
- **key**: string used to distinguish between multiple plugin instances
- **isLocal**: boolean that indicates this is a local plugin. This lets
  recipes know it shouldn't require an NPMPackage with the plugin name
  to be installed as well.

### `<GatsbyShadowFile>`

```jsx
<GatsbyShadowFile theme="gatsby-theme-blog" path="src/components/seo.js" />
```

#### props

- **theme**: the name of the theme (or plugin) which provides the file you'd like to shadow
- **path**: the path to the file within the theme. E.g. the example file above lives at `node_modules/gatsby-theme-blog/src/components/seo.js`

### `<NPMPackage>`

```jsx
<NPMPackage name="lodash" version="latest" />
```

#### props

- **name**: name of the package to install
- **version**: defaults to latest
- **dependencyType**: defaults to `production`. Other options include `development`

### `<NPMPackageJson>`

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
```jsx
<NPMPackageJson
  name="lint-staged"
  value={{
     "src/**/*.js": [
      "jest --findRelatedTests"
    ],
  }}
/>
```
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

#### props

- **name**: name of the property to add to the package.json
- **value**: the value assigned to the property. can be an object or a string.

### `<NPMScript>`

```jsx
<NPMScript name="test" command="jest" />
```

#### props

- **name**: name of the command
- **command**: the command that's run when the script is called

### `<File>`

```jsx
<File
  path="test.md"
  content="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/KyleAMathews/test-recipes/master/gatsby-recipe-jest.mdx"
/>
```

#### props

- **path**: path to the file that should be created. The path is local to the root of the Node.js project (where the `package.json` is)
- **content**: URL to the content that should be written to the path. Eventually we'll support directly putting content here after some fixes to MDX.

> Note that this content is stored in a [GitHub gist](https://gist.github.com/). When linking to a gist you'll want to click on the "Raw" button and copy the URL from that page.

### `<Directory>`

```jsx
<Directory path="test" />
```

#### props

- **path**: path to the directory that should be created. The path is local to the root of the Node.js project (where the `package.json` is)

## How to set up your development environment to work on Gatsby Recipes core

The Gatsby recipes codebase consists of the core framework, code for each resource, and the MDX source.

### Work on Resources & the core framework

First [follow the instructions on setting up a local Gatsby dev environment](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/contributing/setting-up-your-local-dev-environment/).

If you want to fix a bug in a resource or extend it in some way, typically you'll be working against the tests for that resource.

In your terminal, start a jest watch process against the resource you're working on e.g. for GatsbyPlugin:

```shell
GATSBY_RECIPES_NO_COLOR=true jest --testPathPattern "src/.*plugin.test" --watch
```

You can create test recipes that you run in a test site. You'll need to [use `gatsby-dev-cli` for this.](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/contributing/setting-up-your-local-dev-environment/#gatsby-functional-changes).

One note, as you'll be testing changes to the Gatsby CLI — instead of running the global gatsby-cli package (i.e. what you'd
run by typing `gatsby`, you'll want to run the version copied over by `gatsby-dev-cli` by running `./node_modules/.bin/gatsby`.

When debugging the CLI, you may run into errors without stacktraces. In order
to work around that, you can use the node inspector:

```sh
DEBUG=true node --inspect-brk ./node_modules/.bin/gatsby recipes ./test.mdx
```

Then, open up Chrome and click the node icon in dev tools.

To see log output from the Recipes graphql server, start the Recipes API in one terminal `node node_modules/gatsby-recipes/dist/graphql-server/server.js` and then in another terminal run your recipe with `RECIPES_DEV_MODE=true` set as an env variable.

### Official recipes

MDX source for the official recipes lives at [https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/tree/master/packages/gatsby-recipes/recipes](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/tree/master/packages/gatsby-recipes/recipes).

We welcome PRs for new recipes and fixes/improvements to existing recipes.

When you add a new recipe, please also add it to the recipes list at [https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/05151c006974b7636b00f0cd608fac89ddaa1c08/packages/gatsby-recipes/src/cli.js#L60](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/05151c006974b7636b00f0cd608fac89ddaa1c08/packages/gatsby-recipes/src/cli.js#L60).

## FAQ / common issues

### Q) My recipe is combining steps instead of running them separately!

We use the `---` break syntax from Markdown to separate steps.

One quirk with it is for it to work, it must have an empty line above it.

So this will work:

```mdx
# Recipes

---

a step

<File src="something.txt" content="something" />
```

But this won't

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
```mdx
# Recipes
---

a step

<File src="something.txt" content="something" />
```
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

### Q) What kind of recipe should I write?

If you’d like to write a recipe, there are a few great places to get an idea:

- Think of a task that took you more time than other tasks in the last Gatsby site you built. Is there a way to automate any part of that task?
- Look at this list of recipes in the Gatsby docs. Many of these can be partially or fully automated through creating a recipe `mdx` file. https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/recipes/
- community members have posted a number of recipes in the [recipes umbrella issue](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/22991). You can browse their ideas to find inspiration for new recipes to write.
