packages/gatsby-recipes/recipes/eslint.mdx, before:

# Add a custom ESLint config

## Introduction to ESLint
ESLint is an open source JavaScript linting utility. Code linting is a type of
static analysis that is frequently used to find problematic patterns. There are
code linters for most programming languages, and compilers sometimes
incorporate linting into the compilation process.

JavaScript, being a dynamic and loosely-typed language, is especially prone to
developer error. Without the benefit of a compilation process, JavaScript code
is typically executed in order to find syntax or other errors. Linting tools
like ESLint allow developers to discover problems with their JavaScript code
without executing it.

## Why use this recipe

Gatsby ships with a built-in ESLint setup. For most users,
our built-in ESlint setup is all you need. If you know however that you’d like
to customize your ESlint config e.g. your company has their own custom ESlint
setup, this recipe sets this up for you.

You’ll replicate (mostly) the ESLint config Gatsby ships with so you can then
add additional presets, plugins, and rules.

---

Install necessary packages

<NPMPackage name="eslint-config-react-app" dependencyType={"development"} />

---

<File
  path=".eslintrc.js"
  content='https://gist.githubusercontent.com/KyleAMathews/5c4cfa4f58cc2707094f3ae5048e72f6/raw/5a57b14ccc957c8d21c4c6b2f10bba9d179254a1/.estlintrc.js'/>

---

ESlint is now installed! You can edit the eslint config by opening
`.eslintrc.js` in your code editor.

Commit message:

Add gatsby-plugin-eslint to eslint recipe so warnings/errors will print to CLI Learned this was necessary from this issue https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/23666 (#23674)
* Add gatsby-plugin-eslint to eslint recipe so warnings/errors will print to CLI

* Update packages/gatsby-recipes/recipes/eslint.mdx

Co-authored-by: Dan Kirkham <herecy@live.co.uk>

Co-authored-by: Dan Kirkham <herecy@live.co.uk>

packages/gatsby-recipes/recipes/eslint.mdx, after:

# Add a custom ESLint config

## Introduction to ESLint

ESLint is an open source JavaScript linting utility. Code linting is a type of
static analysis that is frequently used to find problematic patterns. There are
code linters for most programming languages, and compilers sometimes
incorporate linting into the compilation process.

JavaScript, being a dynamic and loosely-typed language, is especially prone to
developer error. Without the benefit of a compilation process, JavaScript code
is typically executed in order to find syntax or other errors. Linting tools
like ESLint allow developers to discover problems with their JavaScript code
without executing it.

## Why use this recipe

Gatsby ships with a built-in ESLint setup. For most users,
our built-in ESlint setup is all you need. If you know however that you’d like
to customize your ESlint config e.g. your company has their own custom ESlint
setup, this recipe sets this up for you.

You’ll replicate (mostly) the ESLint config Gatsby ships with so you can then
add additional presets, plugins, and rules.

---

Install necessary packages

<NPMPackage name="eslint-config-react-app" dependencyType={"development"} />
<NPMPackage name="gatsby-plugin-eslint" dependencyType={"development"} />

---

Install `gatsby-plugin-eslint`

<GatsbyPlugin name="gatsby-plugin-eslint" />

---

Write out a basic .eslintrc.js file that you can extend with your own chosen
eslint plugins and presets.

<File
  path=".eslintrc.js"
  content='https://gist.githubusercontent.com/KyleAMathews/5c4cfa4f58cc2707094f3ae5048e72f6/raw/5a57b14ccc957c8d21c4c6b2f10bba9d179254a1/.estlintrc.js'/>

---

ESlint is now installed! You can edit the eslint config by opening
`.eslintrc.js` in your code editor.
