starters/gatsby-starter-theme/README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.gatsbyjs.com">
    <img alt="Gatsby" src="https://www.gatsbyjs.com/Gatsby-Monogram.svg" width="60" />
  </a>
</p>
<h1 align="center">
  Starter for the official Gatsby blog and notes themes.
</h1>

Quickly get started using the Gatsby blog theme, and notes theme, together! This starter creates a new Gatsby site that is preconfigured to work with the [blog theme](https://www.npmjs.com/package/gatsby-theme-blog) and the [notes theme](https://www.npmjs.com/package/gatsby-theme-notes), in harmony.

## 🚀 Quick start

1.  **Create a Gatsby site.**

    Use the Gatsby CLI to create a new site, specifying this theme starter.

    ```shell
    # create a new Gatsby site using this theme starter
    gatsby new my-themed-site https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-theme
    ```

2.  **Start developing.**

    Navigate into your new site’s directory and start it up.

    ```shell
    cd my-themed-site/
    gatsby develop
    ```

3.  **Open the code and start customizing!**

    Your site is now running at `http://localhost:8000`!

    To get started, check out the guide to [getting started with using multiple themes](https://gatsbyjs.com/docs/themes/using-a-gatsby-theme), or the [general themes docs](https://gatsbyjs.com/docs/themes).

## 🧐 What's inside?

Here are the top-level files and directories you'll see in a site created using this theme starter.

```text
gatsby-starter-theme
├── content
│   ├── assets
│   │   └── avatar.jpg
│   ├── notes
│   │   ├── example-dir
│   │   │   └── hi.mdx
│   │   └── hello.mdx
│   └── posts
│       ├── hello-world.mdx
│       ├── my-second-post.mdx
│       └── new-beginnings.mdx
├── src
│   ├── gatsby-theme-blog
│   │   └── components
│   │       └── header.js
│   └── gatsby-theme-notes
│       └── components
│           └── layout.js
├── .gitignore
├── .prettierrc
├── gatsby-config.js
├── LICENSE
└── package.json
```

1.  **`/content`**: A content folder holding assets that the blog and notes themes expect to exist. Check out the README for each theme to learn more about the demo content.

2.  **`/src`**: You will probably want to customize your site to personalize it. The files under `/src/gatsby-theme-blog` and `/src/gatsby-theme-notes` _shadow_, or override the files of the same name in their respective packages. To learn more about this, check out the [guide to getting started with using the blog theme starter](https://gatsbyjs.com/docs/themes/using-a-gatsby-theme).

3.  **`.gitignore`**: This file tells git which files it should not track / not maintain a version history for.

4.  **`.prettierrc`**: This file tells [Prettier](https://prettier.io/) which configuration it should use to lint files.

5.  **`gatsby-config.js`**: This is the main configuration file for a Gatsby site. This is where you can specify information about your site (metadata) like the site title and description, which Gatsby plugins you’d like to include, etc. When using themes, it's where you'll include the theme plugin, and any customization options the theme provides.

6.  **`LICENSE`**: This Gatsby starter is licensed under the 0BSD license. This means that you can see this file as a placeholder and replace it with your own license.

7.  **`package-lock.json`** (See `package.json` below, first). This is an automatically generated file based on the exact versions of your npm dependencies that were installed for your project. **(You won’t change this file directly).**

8.  **`package.json`**: A manifest file for Node.js projects, which includes things like metadata (the project’s name, author, etc). This manifest is how npm knows which packages to install for your project.

9.  **`README.md`**: A text file containing useful reference information about your project.

## 🎓 Learning Gatsby

Looking for more guidance? Full documentation for Gatsby lives [on the website](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/).

Here are some places to start:

### Themes

- To learn more about Gatsby themes specifically, we recommend checking out the [theme docs](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/themes/).

### General

- **For most developers, we recommend starting with our [in-depth tutorial for creating a site with Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/tutorial/).** It starts with zero assumptions about your level of ability and walks through every step of the process.

- **To dive straight into code samples, head [to our documentation](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/).** In particular, check out the _Guides_, _API Reference_, and _Advanced Tutorials_ sections in the sidebar.

Commit message:

chore: Add cloud hosting option for starter READMEs (#30792)
Co-authored-by: gatsbybot <mathews.kyle+gatsbybot@gmail.com>

starters/gatsby-starter-theme/README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.gatsbyjs.com">
    <img alt="Gatsby" src="https://www.gatsbyjs.com/Gatsby-Monogram.svg" width="60" />
  </a>
</p>
<h1 align="center">
  Starter for the official Gatsby blog and notes themes.
</h1>

Quickly get started using the Gatsby blog theme, and notes theme, together! This starter creates a new Gatsby site that is preconfigured to work with the [blog theme](https://www.npmjs.com/package/gatsby-theme-blog) and the [notes theme](https://www.npmjs.com/package/gatsby-theme-notes), in harmony.

## 🚀 Quick start

1.  **Create a Gatsby site.**

    Use the Gatsby CLI to create a new site, specifying this theme starter.

    ```shell
    # create a new Gatsby site using this theme starter
    gatsby new my-themed-site https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-theme
    ```

2.  **Start developing.**

    Navigate into your new site’s directory and start it up.

    ```shell
    cd my-themed-site/
    gatsby develop
    ```

3.  **Open the code and start customizing!**

    Your site is now running at `http://localhost:8000`!

    To get started, check out the guide to [getting started with using multiple themes](https://gatsbyjs.com/docs/themes/using-a-gatsby-theme), or the [general themes docs](https://gatsbyjs.com/docs/themes).

## 🚀 Quick start (Gatsby Cloud)

Deploy this starter with one click on [Gatsby Cloud](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/cloud/):

[<img src="https://www.gatsbyjs.com/deploynow.svg" alt="Deploy to Gatsby Cloud">](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/dashboard/deploynow?url=https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-theme)

## 🧐 What's inside?

Here are the top-level files and directories you'll see in a site created using this theme starter.

```text
gatsby-starter-theme
├── content
│   ├── assets
│   │   └── avatar.jpg
│   ├── notes
│   │   ├── example-dir
│   │   │   └── hi.mdx
│   │   └── hello.mdx
│   └── posts
│       ├── hello-world.mdx
│       ├── my-second-post.mdx
│       └── new-beginnings.mdx
├── src
│   ├── gatsby-theme-blog
│   │   └── components
│   │       └── header.js
│   └── gatsby-theme-notes
│       └── components
│           └── layout.js
├── .gitignore
├── .prettierrc
├── gatsby-config.js
├── LICENSE
└── package.json
```

1.  **`/content`**: A content folder holding assets that the blog and notes themes expect to exist. Check out the README for each theme to learn more about the demo content.

2.  **`/src`**: You will probably want to customize your site to personalize it. The files under `/src/gatsby-theme-blog` and `/src/gatsby-theme-notes` _shadow_, or override the files of the same name in their respective packages. To learn more about this, check out the [guide to getting started with using the blog theme starter](https://gatsbyjs.com/docs/themes/using-a-gatsby-theme).

3.  **`.gitignore`**: This file tells git which files it should not track / not maintain a version history for.

4.  **`.prettierrc`**: This file tells [Prettier](https://prettier.io/) which configuration it should use to lint files.

5.  **`gatsby-config.js`**: This is the main configuration file for a Gatsby site. This is where you can specify information about your site (metadata) like the site title and description, which Gatsby plugins you’d like to include, etc. When using themes, it's where you'll include the theme plugin, and any customization options the theme provides.

6.  **`LICENSE`**: This Gatsby starter is licensed under the 0BSD license. This means that you can see this file as a placeholder and replace it with your own license.

7.  **`package-lock.json`** (See `package.json` below, first). This is an automatically generated file based on the exact versions of your npm dependencies that were installed for your project. **(You won’t change this file directly).**

8.  **`package.json`**: A manifest file for Node.js projects, which includes things like metadata (the project’s name, author, etc). This manifest is how npm knows which packages to install for your project.

9.  **`README.md`**: A text file containing useful reference information about your project.

## 🎓 Learning Gatsby

Looking for more guidance? Full documentation for Gatsby lives [on the website](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/).

Here are some places to start:

### Themes

- To learn more about Gatsby themes specifically, we recommend checking out the [theme docs](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/themes/).

### General

- **For most developers, we recommend starting with our [in-depth tutorial for creating a site with Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/tutorial/).** It starts with zero assumptions about your level of ability and walks through every step of the process.

- **To dive straight into code samples, head [to our documentation](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/).** In particular, check out the _Guides_, _API Reference_, and _Advanced Tutorials_ sections in the sidebar.
