docs/docs/mdx/customizing-components.md, before:

---
title: Customizing Components
---

Using MDX, you can replace every HTML element that Markdown renders with a
custom implementation. This allows you to use a set of design system components
when rendering.

```jsx:title=src/components/layout.js
import { MDXProvider } from "@mdx-js/react"
import * as DesignSystem from "your-design-system"

export default function Layout({ children }) {
  return (
    <MDXProvider
      components={{
        // Map HTML element tag to React component
        h1: DesignSystem.H1,
        h2: DesignSystem.H2,
        h3: DesignSystem.H3,
        // Or define component inline
        p: props => <p {...props} style={{ color: "rebeccapurple" }} />,
      }}
    >
      {children}
    </MDXProvider>
  )
}
```

The following components can be customized with the MDXProvider:

| Tag             | Name                                                                 | Syntax                                              |
| --------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| `p`             | [Paragraph](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#paragraph)          |                                                     |
| `h1`            | [Heading 1](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#heading)            | `#`                                                 |
| `h2`            | [Heading 2](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#heading)            | `##`                                                |
| `h3`            | [Heading 3](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#heading)            | `###`                                               |
| `h4`            | [Heading 4](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#heading)            | `####`                                              |
| `h5`            | [Heading 5](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#heading)            | `#####`                                             |
| `h6`            | [Heading 6](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#heading)            | `######`                                            |
| `thematicBreak` | [Thematic break](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#thematicbreak) | `***`                                               |
| `blockquote`    | [Blockquote](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#blockquote)        | `>`                                                 |
| `ul`            | [List](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#list)                    | `-`                                                 |
| `ol`            | [Ordered list](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#list)            | `1.`                                                |
| `li`            | [List item](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#listitem)           |                                                     |
| `table`         | [Table](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#table)                  | `--- \| --- \| --- \| ---`                          |
| `tr`            | [Table row](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#tablerow)           | `This \| is \| a \| table row`                      |
| `td`/`th`       | [Table cell](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#tablecell)         |                                                     |
| `pre`           | [Pre](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#code)                     | ` ```js console.log()``` `                          |
| `code`          | [Code](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#code)                    | `` `console.log()` ``                               |
| `em`            | [Emphasis](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#emphasis)            | `_emphasis_`                                        |
| `strong`        | [Strong](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#strong)                | `**strong**`                                        |
| `delete`        | [Delete](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#delete)                | `~~strikethrough~~`                                 |
| `code`          | [InlineCode](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#inlinecode)        | `` `console.log()` ``                               |
| `hr`            | [Break](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#break)                  | `---`                                               |
| `a`             | [Link](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#link)                    | `<https://mdxjs.com>` or `[MDX](https://mdxjs.com)` |
| `img`           | [Image](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#image)                  | `![alt](https://mdx-logo.now.sh)`                   |

## How does this work?

Components passed to the MDXProvider are used to render the HTML elements
that Markdown creates. It uses
[React's Context API](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html).

## Related

- [MDX components](https://mdxjs.com/getting-started/)

Commit message:

docs(workflows): new guide about importing and using components in MDX (#21285)
* update libraries to crosslink and include data about using other components

* revisions to remove wrongly committed code

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-Authored-By: LB <barth.laurie@gmail.com>

* Update docs/docs/mdx/importing-and-using-components.md

* update example to clarify shortcode example

* one more change from mdx files to mdx documents

* Update docs/docs/mdx/importing-and-using-components.md

Co-Authored-By: LB <barth.laurie@gmail.com>

Co-authored-by: LB <laurie@gatsbyjs.com>
Co-authored-by: GatsbyJS Bot <mathews.kyle+gatsbybot@gmail.com>

docs/docs/mdx/customizing-components.md, after:

---
title: Customizing Markdown Components
---

Using MDX, you can replace every HTML element that Markdown renders with a
custom implementation. This allows you to use a set of design system components
when rendering.

```jsx:title=src/components/layout.js
import { MDXProvider } from "@mdx-js/react"
import * as DesignSystem from "your-design-system"

export default function Layout({ children }) {
  return (
    <MDXProvider
      components={{
        // Map HTML element tag to React component
        h1: DesignSystem.H1,
        h2: DesignSystem.H2,
        h3: DesignSystem.H3,
        // Or define component inline
        p: props => <p {...props} style={{ color: "rebeccapurple" }} />,
      }}
    >
      {children}
    </MDXProvider>
  )
}
```

**Note**: you can also provide your own custom components to the `MDXProvider` that make them globally available while writing MDX. You can find more details about this pattern in the [Importing and Using Components in MDX guide](/docs/mdx/importing-and-using-components/#make-components-available-globally-as-shortcodes).

The following components can be customized with the MDXProvider:

| Tag             | Name                                                                 | Syntax                                              |
| --------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| `p`             | [Paragraph](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#paragraph)          |                                                     |
| `h1`            | [Heading 1](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#heading)            | `#`                                                 |
| `h2`            | [Heading 2](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#heading)            | `##`                                                |
| `h3`            | [Heading 3](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#heading)            | `###`                                               |
| `h4`            | [Heading 4](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#heading)            | `####`                                              |
| `h5`            | [Heading 5](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#heading)            | `#####`                                             |
| `h6`            | [Heading 6](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#heading)            | `######`                                            |
| `thematicBreak` | [Thematic break](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#thematicbreak) | `***`                                               |
| `blockquote`    | [Blockquote](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#blockquote)        | `>`                                                 |
| `ul`            | [List](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#list)                    | `-`                                                 |
| `ol`            | [Ordered list](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#list)            | `1.`                                                |
| `li`            | [List item](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#listitem)           |                                                     |
| `table`         | [Table](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#table)                  | `--- \| --- \| --- \| ---`                          |
| `tr`            | [Table row](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#tablerow)           | `This \| is \| a \| table row`                      |
| `td`/`th`       | [Table cell](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#tablecell)         |                                                     |
| `pre`           | [Pre](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#code)                     | ` ```js console.log()``` `                          |
| `code`          | [Code](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#code)                    | `` `console.log()` ``                               |
| `em`            | [Emphasis](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#emphasis)            | `_emphasis_`                                        |
| `strong`        | [Strong](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#strong)                | `**strong**`                                        |
| `delete`        | [Delete](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#delete)                | `~~strikethrough~~`                                 |
| `code`          | [InlineCode](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#inlinecode)        | `` `console.log()` ``                               |
| `hr`            | [Break](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#break)                  | `---`                                               |
| `a`             | [Link](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#link)                    | `<https://mdxjs.com>` or `[MDX](https://mdxjs.com)` |
| `img`           | [Image](https://github.com/syntax-tree/mdast#image)                  | `![alt](https://mdx-logo.now.sh)`                   |

## How does this work?

Components passed to the MDXProvider are used to render the HTML elements
that Markdown creates. It uses
[React's Context API](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html).

## Related

- [MDX components](https://mdxjs.com/getting-started/)
