packages/gatsby-plugin-typescript/README.md, before:

# gatsby-plugin-typescript

Allows Gatsby to build TypeScript and TSX files. Does NOT run type checking during build (see Caveats).

## Install

`npm install gatsby-plugin-typescript`

## How to use

1.  Include the plugin in your `gatsby-config.js` file.
1.  Write your components in TSX or TypeScript.
1.  Run TypeScript directly or with a build tool.
1.  You're good to go.

`gatsby-config.js`

```javascript
module.exports = {
  // ...,
  plugins: [`gatsby-plugin-typescript`],
}
```

> When [creating pages programmatically](/docs/programmatically-create-pages-from-data/#creating-pages), you can pass the `.tsx` filename directly as the `component` for [`createPage`](/docs/actions/#createPage).

_**Please note**: If packages don't ship with TypeScript definitions you'll need to manually install those type definitions, e.g. for React. A typical Gatsby project would need: `npm install --save-dev @types/react @types/react-dom @types/node`_

## Options

When adding this plugin to your `gatsby-config.js`, you can pass in options to override the default [@babel/preset-typescript](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/babel-preset-typescript#options) config.

```javascript
// gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    {
      resolve: `gatsby-plugin-typescript`,
      options: {
        isTSX: true, // defaults to false
        jsxPragma: `jsx`, // defaults to "React"
        allExtensions: true, // defaults to false
      },
    },
  ],
}
```

For more detailed documentation on the available options, visit https://babeljs.io/docs/en/babel-preset-typescript#options.

## Caveats

This plugin uses [`babel-plugin-transform-typescript`](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/babel-plugin-transform-typescript.html)
to transpile TypeScript. It does _not do type checking_. Also since the TypeScript
compiler is not involved, the following applies:

> Does not support namespaces.
> Workaround: Move to using file exports, or
> migrate to using the module { } syntax instead.
>
> Does not support const enums because those require
> type information to compile. Workaround: Remove the
> const, which makes it available at runtime.
>
> Does not support export = and import =, because those
> cannot be compiled to ES.next. Workaround: Convert
> to using export default and export const,
> and import x, {y} from "z".
>
> Does not support baseUrl.
> Workaround: use [gatsby-plugin-root-import](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/packages/gatsby-plugin-root-import/)
> and configure it to point the baseUrl value (also set baseUrl option in tsconfig.json file).

https://babeljs.io/docs/en/babel-plugin-transform-typescript.html

## Type checking

First of all you should set up your IDE so that type errors are surfaced.
Visual Studio Code is very good in this regard.

In addition, you can see the instructions in [TypeScript-Babel-Starter](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript-Babel-Starter)
for setting up a `type-check` task.

Commit message:

feature(gatsby): Support TypeScript by default by compiling TS files (#23547)
* feature(gatsby): Support TypeScript by default by compiling TS files

* add a test to ensure we arent adding an extra gatsby-plugin-typescript

* Make a TypeScript file in gatsby-starter

* Add TypeScript example to blog starter

* Update Using Typescript example

* update gatsby-plugin-typescript README.md

* Add Basic TypeScript example

* Update packages/gatsby-plugin-typescript/README.md

Co-authored-by: Aisha Blake <aisha@gatsbyjs.com>

* Update packages/gatsby-plugin-typescript/README.md

Co-authored-by: Aisha Blake <aisha@gatsbyjs.com>

* Add more to the TS docs

* Add docs to sidebar

* Use you as the pronoun

* Fix e2e test

Co-authored-by: Aisha Blake <aisha@gatsbyjs.com>

packages/gatsby-plugin-typescript/README.md, after:

# gatsby-plugin-typescript

Allows Gatsby to build TypeScript and TSX files. Does NOT run type checking during build (see Caveats).

This plugin is automatically included in Gatsby. The only reason you would need to explicitly use this plugin is if you need to configure its options.

## How to customize usage

1.  Include the plugin in your `gatsby-config.js` file with the specific options
1.  Write your components in TSX or TypeScript.
1.  Run TypeScript directly or with a build tool.
1.  You're good to go.

> When [creating pages programmatically](/docs/programmatically-create-pages-from-data/#creating-pages), you can pass the `.tsx` filename directly as the `component` for [`createPage`](/docs/actions/#createPage).

_**Please note**: If packages don't ship with TypeScript definitions you'll need to manually install those type definitions, e.g. for React. A typical Gatsby project would need: `npm install --save-dev @types/react @types/react-dom @types/node`_

## Options

When adding this plugin to your `gatsby-config.js`, you can pass in options to override the default [@babel/preset-typescript](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/babel-preset-typescript#options) config.

```javascript
// gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    {
      resolve: `gatsby-plugin-typescript`,
      options: {
        isTSX: true, // defaults to false
        jsxPragma: `jsx`, // defaults to "React"
        allExtensions: true, // defaults to false
      },
    },
  ],
}
```

For more detailed documentation on the available options, visit https://babeljs.io/docs/en/babel-preset-typescript#options.

## Caveats

This plugin uses [`babel-plugin-transform-typescript`](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/babel-plugin-transform-typescript.html)
to transpile TypeScript. It does _not do type checking_. Also since the TypeScript
compiler is not involved, the following applies:

> Does not support namespaces.
> Workaround: Move to using file exports, or
> migrate to using the module { } syntax instead.
>
> Does not support const enums because those require
> type information to compile. Workaround: Remove the
> const, which makes it available at runtime.
>
> Does not support export = and import =, because those
> cannot be compiled to ES.next. Workaround: Convert
> to using export default and export const,
> and import x, {y} from "z".
>
> Does not support baseUrl.
> Workaround: use [gatsby-plugin-root-import](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/packages/gatsby-plugin-root-import/)
> and configure it to point the baseUrl value (also set baseUrl option in tsconfig.json file).

https://babeljs.io/docs/en/babel-plugin-transform-typescript.html

## Type checking

First of all you should set up your IDE so that type errors are surfaced.
Visual Studio Code is very good in this regard.

In addition, you can see the instructions in [TypeScript-Babel-Starter](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript-Babel-Starter)
for setting up a `type-check` task.
