docs/contributing/community-contributions.md, before:

---
title: Community Contributions
---

A big part of what makes Gatsby great is each and every one of you in the community. Your contributions enrich the Gatsby experience and make it better every day.

We welcome all contributions from you in the community, and would be thrilled to amplify your voice. Contributions are not limited to code, and can take all shapes and forms:

- Your wonderful Gatsby.js website!
- Gatsby starters
- Gatsby plugins
- Blog posts and case studies
- Talk and lecture videos
- Workshop materials
- GitHub issues and pull requests

...and anything else you can think of. Our showcase and library contribution docs are a great place to start:

- [Submit to Site Showcase](/contributing/site-showcase-submissions)
- [Submit to Starter Library](/contributing/submit-to-starter-library/)
- [Submit to Plugin Library](/contributing/submit-to-plugin-library/)

Peruse the rest of our contributor docs and reach out to us on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/gatsbyjs), [Discord](https://gatsby.dev/discord), or in a [GitHub issue](/contributing/how-to-file-an-issue/) if you have any questions about contributing!

Commit message:

chore(docs): Update docs to reflect changing showcase/starter submission workflow (#26442)

docs/contributing/community-contributions.md, after:

---
title: Community Contributions
---

A big part of what makes Gatsby great is each and every one of you in the community. Your contributions enrich the Gatsby experience and make it better every day.

We welcome all contributions from you in the community, and would be thrilled to amplify your voice. Contributions are not limited to code, and can take all shapes and forms:

- Your wonderful Gatsby.js website!
- Gatsby starters
- Gatsby plugins
- Blog posts and case studies
- Talk and lecture videos
- Workshop materials
- GitHub issues and pull requests

...and anything else you can think of. Our showcase and library contribution docs are a great place to start:

- [Submit to Plugin Library](/contributing/submit-to-plugin-library/)

**Note:** Showcase and starter contributions are currently paused while the Gatsby team develops a new workflow for sharing your Gatsby sites with the community.

Peruse the rest of our contributor docs and reach out to us on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/gatsbyjs), [Discord](https://gatsby.dev/discord), or in a [GitHub issue](/contributing/how-to-file-an-issue/) if you have any questions about contributing!
