docs/contributing/docs-and-blog-components.md, before:

---
title: Docs & Blog Components
tableOfContentsDepth: 2
---

The Gatsbyjs.org site has a handful of components that have been developed to facilitate writing new content for the blog and the docs. There are also components that help organize and lay out content in various pages across the website.

This guide documents what components are available and explains how to use them. You can also refer to the [code for this page on GitHub](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/master/docs/contributing/docs-and-blog-components.md) to see to how each component can be used, because they are all embedded here!

Information about authoring in Markdown on the site is also listed.

## Globally available components

A variety of components have been written to help with formatting code and content across the blog and the docs and don't need to be imported.

---

### Guide List

The `<GuideList />` is a component that renders an h2 heading and a list of links to child docs nested below the current doc in the site's information architecture. It is often used on overview pages like the [Headless CMS](/docs/headless-cms/) guide where many other pages are nested below it to show what a docs section contains.

#### Usage

The Guide List component takes one prop:

- `slug` (required) - the value of which is already available on every page's context on Gatsbyjs.org by default

The slug is used to find a matching value in one of the `yaml` files that sets up the hierarchical structure for how the guides in the [docs](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/master/www/src/data/sidebars/doc-links.yaml), [tutorial](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/master/www/src/data/sidebars/tutorial-links.yaml), and [contributing](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/master/www/src/data/sidebars/contributing-links.yaml) section are organized. It finds the matching entry in the hierarchy and renders the pages that are children of it in a list.

The component can be used like this:

```markdown:title=docs/headless-cms
---
title: Headless CMS
---

Overview information about headless CMSs...

<GuideList slug={props.slug} /> // highlight-line
```

#### Sample

When rendered in a page, the Guide List looks like this:

<GuideList slug="/docs/headless-cms/" />

_This example has the prop `slug="/docs/headless-cms/"` set, and can be seen on the doc for [Headless CMS](/docs/headless-cms/)_

---

### Egghead Embed

To embed video content from [Egghead](https://egghead.io) on the site, there is an `<EggheadEmbed />` component that adds an iframe with the video inline with other content.

#### Usage

The Egghead Embed component takes two props:

- `lessonLink` - the URL of the lesson from Egghead
- `lessonTitle` - the name of the lesson that is used to add more information to the embedded iframe.

It can be used like this:

```markdown:title=docs/using-gatsby-image
---
title: Using Gatsby Image
---

This is how you use `gatsby-image`...

<!-- highlight-start -->

<EggheadEmbed
  lessonLink="https://egghead.io/lessons/gatsby-use-gatsby-image-s-graphql-fragments-for-blurred-up-and-traced-svg-images"
  lessonTitle="Use gatsby-image's GraphQL fragments for blurred-up and traced SVG images"
/>

<!-- highlight-end -->
```

#### Sample

Rendered, it looks like this:

<EggheadEmbed
  lessonLink="https://egghead.io/lessons/gatsby-use-gatsby-image-s-graphql-fragments-for-blurred-up-and-traced-svg-images"
  lessonTitle="Use gatsby-image's GraphQL fragments for blurred-up and traced SVG images"
/>

---

### Pull Quote

The `<Pullquote />` component is used to call out a quote in the blog. It applies borders and styles that make a section of the content pop out to readers.

#### Usage

The Pull Quote component takes two optional props, and uses the children it wraps to populate its inner content:

- `citation` - the reference of the person or entity that made the quoted statement
- `narrow` - styles the pull quote by removing the left and right negative margins, keeping it inside the parent container. This prop is not used in the blog to help the quote stand out, but could be used in docs where it's necessary to keep content from overlapping with other sections of the layout, such as the Table of Contents.

It is used like this:

```markdown:title=blog/new-announcement.md
---
title: Big News!
author: Jay Gatsby
---

<!-- highlight-start -->
<Pullquote citation="Winston Churchill" narrow={true}>
  To improve is to change, so to be perfect is to have changed often.
</Pullquote>
<!-- highlight-end -->
```

#### Sample

Rendered, the component looks like this:

<Pullquote narrow={true} citation="Winston Churchill">
  To improve is to change, so to be perfect is to have changed often.
</Pullquote>

### Gatsby Cloud Callout

The `<CloudCallout />` component is used to call attention and link to Gatsby Cloud. It wraps a small call to action in styles that make content stand out.

#### Usage

The Cloud Callout component takes one optional prop, and prepends the children it wraps to the general call to action:

- `narrow` - styles the component by removing the left and right negative margins, keeping it inside the parent container. This prop is by default set to true since it's most commonly used in the docs where it's necessary to keep content from overlapping with other sections of the layout, such as the Table of Contents.

It is used like this:

```markdown:title=docs/deploying-to-storage-provider.md
---
title: Deploying to Storage Provider
---

<!-- highlight-start -->
<CloudCallout>
  Connect your Gatsby site to Storage Provider for automatic deployments
</CloudCallout>
<!-- highlight-end -->
```

#### Sample

Rendered, the component looks like this:

<CloudCallout>
  Connect your Gatsby site to Storage Provider for automatic deployments
</CloudCallout>{" "}

### Component Model

The `<ComponentModel />` was made to help explain concepts of how Gatsby works at a high level. It conceptually breaks Gatsby into different layers and shows how data is pulled, aggregated, and eventually rendered as an app. It's used on docs pages to help explain how Gatsby works at different levels.

#### Usage

The Component Model component takes one prop:

- `initialLayer` - defaults to `Content`, can be one of `Content`, `Build`, `Data`, `View`, `App` that correspond to the different layers

```markdown
---
title: GraphQL Concepts in Gatsby
---

To help understand how GraphQL works in Gatsby...

<ComponentModel initialLayer="Data" />
```

## Importing other components

If you need to use a component that is not globally available, you can do by importing it using the special `@components` alias, which points to `www/src/components`:

```mdx
import EmailCaptureForm from "@components/email-capture-form"

<EmailCaptureForm />
```

**NOTE:** Do _not_ import a component using relative path directories:

```mdx
// DO NOT DO THIS
import EmailCaptureForm from "../../www/src/components/email-capture-form"
```

Doing so will break localized versions of the page, which are stored in other repos.

---

## Writing content in Markdown

New docs and blog posts are added to the [docs](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/tree/master/docs/) folder inside the Gatsby repository. They are stored as `.md` (Markdown) or `.mdx` (MDX) files and can be written using Markdown, or using inline JSX thanks to MDX. Writing in Markdown will output tags that are styled according to [Gatsby's design guidelines](/guidelines/color/).

You can read more about writing in Markdown in the [Markdown syntax guide](/docs/mdx/markdown-syntax).

### Frontmatter

[Frontmatter](/docs/adding-markdown-pages/#frontmatter-for-metadata-in-markdown-files) is a set of key-value pairs in your Markdown and MDX files that defines the metadata for a page. While authoring new docs and blog posts for the Gatsby site, it may be helpful to understand what frontmatter is available to you.

#### General

- `title` (string)

  The title of the doc or blog post. Gatsby renders the value in `og:title`, `<title>` and `<h1>`.

- `excerpt` (string)

  The excerpt for the post. Gatsby renders the value in `description`, `og:description`, and `twitter:description`.

#### Blog Posts

- `date` (string)

  The blog post's date in the format of `YYYY-MM-DD`.

- `canonicalLink` (string)

  The URL to the original piece of content. This is useful for SEO attribution when cross-posting blog posts across domains. Google [offers an explanation](https://support.google.com/webmasters/answer/139066?hl=en) if you're interested in learning more.

- `tags` (array)

  The blog post's related tags. Gatsby renders the [YAML array/list](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML#Basic_components) as links to tag archives and creates the archive if it doesn't exist.

- `image` (string)

  The relative path to the image.

  - Facebook and `twitterCard: summary` support an aspect ratio of 1:1.
  - LinkedIn supports an aspect ratio of 1.91:1 and `twitterCard: summary_large_image` supports an aspect ratio of 2:1
  - Gatsby resizes the image to 1500x1500 and renders the URL in the `og:image` and `twitter:image` metadata.

- `imageAuthor` (string)

  The name of the image's author. Gatsby renders the value in an `<a>` tag only if `imageAuthorLink` is defined.

- `imageAuthorLink` (string)

  The link to the image's author. Gatsby renders the value in an `<a>` tag only if `imageAuthor` is defined.

- `showImageInArticle` (boolean, default false)

  Determines if the `image` is displayed as a hero in the blog post. Gatsby renders it as a fluid image with a width of 786px.

- `twitterCard` (string)

  A choice between: `summary` or `summary_large_image` that Gatsby renders in the `twitter:card` metadata.

  - `summary` - displays the post as a snapshot that includes a thumbnail, title, and description to convey its content.
  - `summary_large_image` - displays the post as a large, full-width image that conveys the visual aspect.

- `author` (string)

  The author's name, which is also the `id` in the `/docs/blog/author.yaml` file. Gatsby renders a link to the author's archive page.

#### Documentation

- `description` (string, default `excerpt`)

  A description of the doc. Gatsby renders the value in the `description` and `og:description` metadata.

- `issue` (string)

  The issue URL relating to a stub on GitHub. Gatsby renders a link to the stub.

- `disableTableOfContents` - (boolean)

  Determines if the table of contents is output.

- `tableOfContentsDepth` - (integer)

  The number of levels to render the table of contents.

#### Relevant Links

- [About Twitter Cards](https://developer.twitter.com/en/docs/tweets/optimize-with-cards/overview/abouts-cards)
- [Facebook Sharing - Best Practices](https://developers.facebook.com/docs/sharing/best-practices#images)
- [Making Your Website Shareable on LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/help/linkedin/answer/46687/making-your-website-shareable-on-linkedin?lang=en)

### Code blocks

Code can be formatted using regular Markdown syntax, but the docs site has additional enhancements that can be used thanks to various Gatsby plugins that aren't all native Markdown.

#### Usage

Code blocks are wrapped in 3 backticks. A language can be added immediately after the first set of back ticks to provide syntax highlighting for the language. A `title` of the file can be added after the language. Line highlighting can be included in the code block by commenting `highlight-line`, or `highlight-start` followed by a `highlight-end`.

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
````markdown
```javascript:title=gatsby-config.js
// In your gatsby-config.js
plugins: [
  {
    resolve: `gatsby-transformer-remark`,
    options: {
      plugins: [
        `gatsby-remark-prismjs`
      ],
    },
  },
]
```
````

In order to demonstrate how to use code blocks in a doc without your triple backticks being styled and formatted automatically (just like the example above), you can wrap a set of triple backticks in quadruple backticks like this:

`````markdown
````
```javascript:title=gatsby-config.js
// In your gatsby-config.js
plugins: [
  {
    resolve: `gatsby-transformer-remark`,
    options: {
      plugins: [
        `gatsby-remark-prismjs`
      ],
    },
  },
]
```
````
`````

#### Sample

The above code block is rendered like this:

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```javascript:title=gatsby-config.js
// In your gatsby-config.js
plugins: [
  {
    resolve: `gatsby-transformer-remark`,
    options: {
      plugins: [
        `gatsby-remark-prismjs`
      ],
    },
  },
]
```

Line numbers and line highlighting can be added to code blocks as well, and is explained in detail in the [`gatsby-remark-prismjs` README](/packages/gatsby-remark-prismjs/?=remark#optional-add-line-highlighting-styles).

Commit message:

feat(www): Meta title support (#23797)

docs/contributing/docs-and-blog-components.md, after:

---
title: Docs & Blog Components
tableOfContentsDepth: 2
---

The Gatsbyjs.org site has a handful of components that have been developed to facilitate writing new content for the blog and the docs. There are also components that help organize and lay out content in various pages across the website.

This guide documents what components are available and explains how to use them. You can also refer to the [code for this page on GitHub](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/master/docs/contributing/docs-and-blog-components.md) to see to how each component can be used, because they are all embedded here!

Information about authoring in Markdown on the site is also listed.

## Globally available components

A variety of components have been written to help with formatting code and content across the blog and the docs and don't need to be imported.

---

### Guide List

The `<GuideList />` is a component that renders an h2 heading and a list of links to child docs nested below the current doc in the site's information architecture. It is often used on overview pages like the [Headless CMS](/docs/headless-cms/) guide where many other pages are nested below it to show what a docs section contains.

#### Usage

The Guide List component takes one prop:

- `slug` (required) - the value of which is already available on every page's context on Gatsbyjs.org by default

The slug is used to find a matching value in one of the `yaml` files that sets up the hierarchical structure for how the guides in the [docs](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/master/www/src/data/sidebars/doc-links.yaml), [tutorial](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/master/www/src/data/sidebars/tutorial-links.yaml), and [contributing](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/master/www/src/data/sidebars/contributing-links.yaml) section are organized. It finds the matching entry in the hierarchy and renders the pages that are children of it in a list.

The component can be used like this:

```markdown:title=docs/headless-cms
---
title: Headless CMS
---

Overview information about headless CMSs...

<GuideList slug={props.slug} /> // highlight-line
```

#### Sample

When rendered in a page, the Guide List looks like this:

<GuideList slug="/docs/headless-cms/" />

_This example has the prop `slug="/docs/headless-cms/"` set, and can be seen on the doc for [Headless CMS](/docs/headless-cms/)_

---

### Egghead Embed

To embed video content from [Egghead](https://egghead.io) on the site, there is an `<EggheadEmbed />` component that adds an iframe with the video inline with other content.

#### Usage

The Egghead Embed component takes two props:

- `lessonLink` - the URL of the lesson from Egghead
- `lessonTitle` - the name of the lesson that is used to add more information to the embedded iframe.

It can be used like this:

```markdown:title=docs/using-gatsby-image
---
title: Using Gatsby Image
---

This is how you use `gatsby-image`...

<!-- highlight-start -->

<EggheadEmbed
  lessonLink="https://egghead.io/lessons/gatsby-use-gatsby-image-s-graphql-fragments-for-blurred-up-and-traced-svg-images"
  lessonTitle="Use gatsby-image's GraphQL fragments for blurred-up and traced SVG images"
/>

<!-- highlight-end -->
```

#### Sample

Rendered, it looks like this:

<EggheadEmbed
  lessonLink="https://egghead.io/lessons/gatsby-use-gatsby-image-s-graphql-fragments-for-blurred-up-and-traced-svg-images"
  lessonTitle="Use gatsby-image's GraphQL fragments for blurred-up and traced SVG images"
/>

---

### Pull Quote

The `<Pullquote />` component is used to call out a quote in the blog. It applies borders and styles that make a section of the content pop out to readers.

#### Usage

The Pull Quote component takes two optional props, and uses the children it wraps to populate its inner content:

- `citation` - the reference of the person or entity that made the quoted statement
- `narrow` - styles the pull quote by removing the left and right negative margins, keeping it inside the parent container. This prop is not used in the blog to help the quote stand out, but could be used in docs where it's necessary to keep content from overlapping with other sections of the layout, such as the Table of Contents.

It is used like this:

```markdown:title=blog/new-announcement.md
---
title: Big News!
author: Jay Gatsby
---

<!-- highlight-start -->
<Pullquote citation="Winston Churchill" narrow={true}>
  To improve is to change, so to be perfect is to have changed often.
</Pullquote>
<!-- highlight-end -->
```

#### Sample

Rendered, the component looks like this:

<Pullquote narrow={true} citation="Winston Churchill">
  To improve is to change, so to be perfect is to have changed often.
</Pullquote>

### Gatsby Cloud Callout

The `<CloudCallout />` component is used to call attention and link to Gatsby Cloud. It wraps a small call to action in styles that make content stand out.

#### Usage

The Cloud Callout component takes one optional prop, and prepends the children it wraps to the general call to action:

- `narrow` - styles the component by removing the left and right negative margins, keeping it inside the parent container. This prop is by default set to true since it's most commonly used in the docs where it's necessary to keep content from overlapping with other sections of the layout, such as the Table of Contents.

It is used like this:

```markdown:title=docs/deploying-to-storage-provider.md
---
title: Deploying to Storage Provider
---

<!-- highlight-start -->
<CloudCallout>
  Connect your Gatsby site to Storage Provider for automatic deployments
</CloudCallout>
<!-- highlight-end -->
```

#### Sample

Rendered, the component looks like this:

<CloudCallout>
  Connect your Gatsby site to Storage Provider for automatic deployments
</CloudCallout>{" "}

### Component Model

The `<ComponentModel />` was made to help explain concepts of how Gatsby works at a high level. It conceptually breaks Gatsby into different layers and shows how data is pulled, aggregated, and eventually rendered as an app. It's used on docs pages to help explain how Gatsby works at different levels.

#### Usage

The Component Model component takes one prop:

- `initialLayer` - defaults to `Content`, can be one of `Content`, `Build`, `Data`, `View`, `App` that correspond to the different layers

```markdown
---
title: GraphQL Concepts in Gatsby
---

To help understand how GraphQL works in Gatsby...

<ComponentModel initialLayer="Data" />
```

## Importing other components

If you need to use a component that is not globally available, you can do by importing it using the special `@components` alias, which points to `www/src/components`:

```mdx
import EmailCaptureForm from "@components/email-capture-form"

<EmailCaptureForm />
```

**NOTE:** Do _not_ import a component using relative path directories:

```mdx
// DO NOT DO THIS
import EmailCaptureForm from "../../www/src/components/email-capture-form"
```

Doing so will break localized versions of the page, which are stored in other repos.

---

## Writing content in Markdown

New docs and blog posts are added to the [docs](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/tree/master/docs/) folder inside the Gatsby repository. They are stored as `.md` (Markdown) or `.mdx` (MDX) files and can be written using Markdown, or using inline JSX thanks to MDX. Writing in Markdown will output tags that are styled according to [Gatsby's design guidelines](/guidelines/color/).

You can read more about writing in Markdown in the [Markdown syntax guide](/docs/mdx/markdown-syntax).

### Frontmatter

[Frontmatter](/docs/adding-markdown-pages/#frontmatter-for-metadata-in-markdown-files) is a set of key-value pairs in your Markdown and MDX files that defines the metadata for a page. While authoring new docs and blog posts for the Gatsby site, it may be helpful to understand what frontmatter is available to you.

#### General

- `title` (string)

  The title of the doc or blog post. Gatsby renders the value in `og:title`, `<title>` and `<h1>`.

- `excerpt` (string)

  The excerpt for the post. Gatsby renders the value in `description`, `og:description`, and `twitter:description`.

#### Blog Posts

- `seoTitle` (string)

  If provided, this value will overwrite the `title` for the blog post's `og:title` and `<title>`. This is useful for SEO, as it lets us target specific relevant keywords, without needing to change the page's primary visible title.

- `date` (string)

  The blog post's date in the format of `YYYY-MM-DD`.

- `canonicalLink` (string)

  The URL to the original piece of content. This is useful for SEO attribution when cross-posting blog posts across domains. Google [offers an explanation](https://support.google.com/webmasters/answer/139066?hl=en) if you're interested in learning more.

- `tags` (array)

  The blog post's related tags. Gatsby renders the [YAML array/list](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML#Basic_components) as links to tag archives and creates the archive if it doesn't exist.

- `image` (string)

  The relative path to the image.

  - Facebook and `twitterCard: summary` support an aspect ratio of 1:1.
  - LinkedIn supports an aspect ratio of 1.91:1 and `twitterCard: summary_large_image` supports an aspect ratio of 2:1
  - Gatsby resizes the image to 1500x1500 and renders the URL in the `og:image` and `twitter:image` metadata.

- `imageAuthor` (string)

  The name of the image's author. Gatsby renders the value in an `<a>` tag only if `imageAuthorLink` is defined.

- `imageAuthorLink` (string)

  The link to the image's author. Gatsby renders the value in an `<a>` tag only if `imageAuthor` is defined.

- `showImageInArticle` (boolean, default false)

  Determines if the `image` is displayed as a hero in the blog post. Gatsby renders it as a fluid image with a width of 786px.

- `twitterCard` (string)

  A choice between: `summary` or `summary_large_image` that Gatsby renders in the `twitter:card` metadata.

  - `summary` - displays the post as a snapshot that includes a thumbnail, title, and description to convey its content.
  - `summary_large_image` - displays the post as a large, full-width image that conveys the visual aspect.

- `author` (string)

  The author's name, which is also the `id` in the `/docs/blog/author.yaml` file. Gatsby renders a link to the author's archive page.

#### Documentation

- `description` (string, default `excerpt`)

  A description of the doc. Gatsby renders the value in the `description` and `og:description` metadata.

- `issue` (string)

  The issue URL relating to a stub on GitHub. Gatsby renders a link to the stub.

- `disableTableOfContents` - (boolean)

  Determines if the table of contents is output.

- `tableOfContentsDepth` - (integer)

  The number of levels to render the table of contents.

#### Relevant Links

- [About Twitter Cards](https://developer.twitter.com/en/docs/tweets/optimize-with-cards/overview/abouts-cards)
- [Facebook Sharing - Best Practices](https://developers.facebook.com/docs/sharing/best-practices#images)
- [Making Your Website Shareable on LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/help/linkedin/answer/46687/making-your-website-shareable-on-linkedin?lang=en)

### Code blocks

Code can be formatted using regular Markdown syntax, but the docs site has additional enhancements that can be used thanks to various Gatsby plugins that aren't all native Markdown.

#### Usage

Code blocks are wrapped in 3 backticks. A language can be added immediately after the first set of back ticks to provide syntax highlighting for the language. A `title` of the file can be added after the language. Line highlighting can be included in the code block by commenting `highlight-line`, or `highlight-start` followed by a `highlight-end`.

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
````markdown
```javascript:title=gatsby-config.js
// In your gatsby-config.js
plugins: [
  {
    resolve: `gatsby-transformer-remark`,
    options: {
      plugins: [
        `gatsby-remark-prismjs`
      ],
    },
  },
]
```
````

In order to demonstrate how to use code blocks in a doc without your triple backticks being styled and formatted automatically (just like the example above), you can wrap a set of triple backticks in quadruple backticks like this:

`````markdown
````
```javascript:title=gatsby-config.js
// In your gatsby-config.js
plugins: [
  {
    resolve: `gatsby-transformer-remark`,
    options: {
      plugins: [
        `gatsby-remark-prismjs`
      ],
    },
  },
]
```
````
`````

#### Sample

The above code block is rendered like this:

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```javascript:title=gatsby-config.js
// In your gatsby-config.js
plugins: [
  {
    resolve: `gatsby-transformer-remark`,
    options: {
      plugins: [
        `gatsby-remark-prismjs`
      ],
    },
  },
]
```

Line numbers and line highlighting can be added to code blocks as well, and is explained in detail in the [`gatsby-remark-prismjs` README](/packages/gatsby-remark-prismjs/?=remark#optional-add-line-highlighting-styles).
