docs/contributing/how-to-contribute.md, before:

---
title: How to Contribute
---

We want contributing to Gatsby to be fun, enjoyable, and educational for anyone and everyone. All contributions are welcome, including issues, new docs as well as updates and tweaks, blog posts, workshops, and more.

## Not sure how to start contributing?

If you are worried or don't know where to start, be sure to check out our [where to participate](/contributing/where-to-participate/) page. You can also reach out to [Marcy Sutton (@marcysutton) on Twitter](https://twitter.com/marcysutton) or submit an issue and a maintainer can help give you guidance!

## Pair programming

Gatsby.js offers free [pair programming sessions](/contributing/pair-programming/) to the community, if there's something you'd like to work on together. Get in touch with us if you have a question about contributing or an idea for something to pair on!

## Docs in this section

- [How to File an Issue](/contributing/how-to-file-an-issue/)
- [How to Label an Issue](/contributing/how-to-label-an-issue/)
- [Triaging GitHub Issues](/contributing/triaging-github-issues/)
- [Setting Up Your Local Dev Environment](/contributing/setting-up-your-local-dev-environment/)
- [Docs Contributions](/contributing/docs-contributions/)
- [Code Contributions](/contributing/code-contributions/)
- [Blog and Website Contributions](/contributing/blog-and-website-contributions/)
- [Community Contributions](/contributing/community-contributions/)

Commit message:

[docs] New contributing doc on How to Open a Pull Request (#17708)
* WIP: update PR docs

* feat: page on how to open a PR

* fix stuff on managing-prs doc

* Update docs/contributing/docs-contributions.md

Co-Authored-By: Kyle Gill <kylerobertgill@gmail.com>

* fix up manual guidelists/TOCs in contributing docs

* update PR doc with further instructions

docs/contributing/how-to-contribute.md, after:

---
title: How to Contribute
---

We want contributing to Gatsby to be fun, enjoyable, and educational for anyone and everyone. All contributions are welcome, including issues, new docs as well as updates and tweaks, blog posts, workshops, and more.

## Not sure how to start contributing?

If you are worried or don't know where to start, check out our [where to participate](/contributing/where-to-participate/) page. You can reach out with questions to [Marcy Sutton (@marcysutton)](https://twitter.com/marcysutton) or [@GatsbyJS](https://twitter.com/gatsbyjs) on Twitter, and anyone from the Gatsby team on [Discord](https://gatsby.dev/discord). You can also [submit an issue](/contributing/how-to-file-an-issue/) and a maintainer can give you guidance!

## Pair programming

Gatsby.js offers free [pair programming sessions](/contributing/pair-programming/) to the community, if there's something you'd like to work on together. Get in touch with us if you have a question about contributing or an idea for something to pair on!

<GuideList slug={props.slug} />
