docs/docs/recipes/styling-css.md, before:

---
title: "Recipes: Styling with CSS"
tableOfContentsDepth: 1
---

There are so many ways to add styles to your website; Gatsby supports almost every possible option, through official and community plugins.

## Using global CSS files without a Layout component

### Prerequisites

- An existing [Gatsby site](/docs/quick-start/) with an index page component
- A `gatsby-browser.js` file

### Directions

1. Create a global CSS file as `src/styles/global.css` and paste the following into the file:

```css:title=src/styles/global.css
html {
  background-color: lavenderblush;
}

p {
  color: maroon;
}
```

2. Import the global CSS file in the `gatsby-browser.js` file such as the following:

```javascript:title=gatsby-browser.js
import "./src/styles/global.css"
```

> **Note:** You can also make use of `require('./src/styles/global.css')` to import the global CSS file in your `gatsby-browser.js` file.

3. Run `gatsby-develop` to observe the global styling being applied across your site.

> **Note:** This approach is not the best fit if you are using CSS-in-JS for styling your site, in which case a layout page with all the shared components should be used. This is covered in the next recipe.

### Additional resources

- More on [adding global styles without a layout component](/docs/global-css/#adding-global-styles-without-a-layout-component)

## Using global styles in a layout component

### Prerequisites

- A [Gatsby site](/docs/quick-start/) with an index page component

### Directions

You can add global styles to a [shared layout component](/tutorial/part-three/#your-first-layout-component). This component is used for things that are common throughout the site, like a header or footer.

1. If you don't already have one, create a new directory in your site at `/src/components`.

2. Inside the components directory, create two files: `layout.css` and `layout.js`.

3. Add the following to `layout.css`:

```css:title=/src/components/layout.css
body {
  background: red;
}
```

4. Edit `layout.js` to import the CSS file and output layout markup:

```jsx:title=/src/components/layout.js
import React from "react"
import "./layout.css"

export default function Layout({ children }) {
  return <div>{children}</div>
}
```

5. Now edit your site's homepage at `/src/pages/index.js` and use the new layout component:

```jsx:title=/src/pages/index.js
import React from "react"
import Layout from "../components/layout"

export default function Home() {
  return <Layout>Hello world!</Layout>
}
```

### Additional resources

- [Standard Styling with Global CSS Files](/docs/global-css/)
- [More about layout components](/tutorial/part-three)

## Using Styled Components

### Prerequisites

- A [Gatsby site](/docs/quick-start/) with an index page component
- [gatsby-plugin-styled-components, styled-components, and babel-plugin-styled-components](/packages/gatsby-plugin-styled-components/) installed in `package.json`

### Directions

1. Inside your `gatsby-config.js` file add `gatsby-plugin-styled-components`

```javascript:title=gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  plugins: [`gatsby-plugin-styled-components`],
}
```

2. Open the index page component (`src/pages/index.js`) and import the `styled-components` package

3. Style components by creating style blocks for each element type

4. Apply to the page by including styled components in the JSX

```jsx:title=src/pages/index.js
import React from "react"
import styled from "styled-components" //highlight-line

const Container = styled.div`
  margin: 3rem auto;
  max-width: 600px;
  display: flex;
  flex-direction: column;
  align-items: center;
  justify-content: center;
`

const Avatar = styled.img`
  flex: 0 0 96px;
  width: 96px;
  height: 96px;
  margin: 0;
`

const Username = styled.h2`
  margin: 0 0 12px 0;
  padding: 0;
`

const User = props => (
  <>
    <Avatar src={props.avatar} alt={props.username} />
    <Username>{props.username}</Username>
  </>
)

export default function UsersList() {
  return (
    <Container>
      <h1>About Styled Components</h1>
      <p>Styled Components is cool</p>
      <User
        username="Jane Doe"
        avatar="https://s3.amazonaws.com/uifaces/faces/twitter/adellecharles/128.jpg"
      />
      <User
        username="Bob Smith"
        avatar="https://s3.amazonaws.com/uifaces/faces/twitter/vladarbatov/128.jpg"
      />
    </Container>
  )
}
```

4. Run `gatsby develop` to see the changes

### Additional resources

- [More on Using Styled Components](/docs/styled-components/)
- [Egghead lesson](https://egghead.io/lessons/gatsby-style-gatsby-sites-with-styled-components)

## Using CSS Modules

### Prerequisites

- An existing [Gatsby site](/docs/quick-start/) with an index page component

### Directions

1. Create a CSS module as `src/pages/index.module.css` and paste the following into the module:

```css:title=src/pages/index.module.css
.feature {
  margin: 2rem auto;
  max-width: 500px;
}
```

2. Import the CSS module as a JSX object `style` in the `index.js` file by modifying the page so it looks like the following:

```jsx:title=src/pages/index.js
import React from "react"

// highlight-start
import style from "./index.module.css"

export default function Home() {
  return (
    <section className={style.feature}>
      <h1>Using CSS Modules</h1>
    </section>
  )
}
// highlight-end
```

3. Run `gatsby develop` to see the changes.

**Note:**
Notice that the file extension is `.module.css` instead of `.css`, which tells Gatsby that this is a CSS module.

### Additional resources

- More on [Using CSS Modules](/tutorial/part-two/#css-modules)
- [Live example on Using CSS modules](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/master/examples/using-css-modules)

## Using Sass/SCSS

Sass is an extension of CSS that gives you more advanced features like nested rules, variables, mixins, and more.

Sass has 2 syntaxes. The most commonly used syntax is "SCSS", and is a superset of CSS. That means all valid CSS syntax, is valid SCSS syntax. SCSS files use the extension `.scss`

Sass will compile `.scss` and `.sass` files to `.css` files for you, so you can write your stylesheets with more advanced features.

### Prerequisites

- A [Gatsby site](/docs/quick-start/).

### Directions

1. Install the Gatsby plugin [gatsby-plugin-sass](/plugins/gatsby-plugin-sass/) and `node-sass`.

`npm install node-sass gatsby-plugin-sass`

2. Include the plugin in your `gatsby-config.js` file.

```javascript:title=gatsby-config.js
plugins: [`gatsby-plugin-sass`],
```

3. Write your stylesheets as `.sass` or `.scss` files and import them. If you don't know how to import styles, take a look at [Styling with CSS](/docs/recipes/#2-styling-with-css)

```css:title=styles.scss
$font-stack: Helvetica, sans-serif;
$primary-color: #333;

body {
  font: 100% $font-stack;
  color: $primary-color;
}
```

```css:title=styles.sass
$font-stack:    Helvetica, sans-serif
$primary-color: #333

body
  font: 100% $font-stack
  color: $primary-color
```

```javascript
import "./styles.scss"
import "./styles.sass"
```

_Note: You can use Sass/SCSS files as modules too, like mentioned in the previous recipe about CSS modules, with the difference that instead of `.css` the extensions have to be `.scss` or `.sass`_

### Additional resources

- [Difference between `.sass` and `.scss`](https://responsivedesign.is/articles/difference-between-sass-and-scss/)
- [Sass guide from the official Sass website](https://sass-lang.com/guide)
- [A more complete installation tutorial on Sass with some more explanations and more resources](/docs/sass/)

## Adding a Local Font

### Prerequisites

- A [Gatsby site](/docs/quick-start/)
- A font file: `.woff2`, `.ttf`, etc.

### Directions

1. Copy a font file into your Gatsby project, such as `src/fonts/fontname.woff2`.

2. Import the font asset into a CSS file to bundle it into your Gatsby site:

```css:title=src/css/typography.css
@font-face {
  font-family: "Font Name";
  src: url("../fonts/fontname.woff2");
}
```

**Note:** Make sure the font name is referenced from the relevant CSS, e.g.:

```css:title=src/components/layout.css
body {
  font-family: "Font Name", sans-serif;
}
```

By targeting the HTML `body` element, your font will apply to most text on the page. Additional CSS can target other elements, such as `button` or `textarea`.

If fonts are not updating following steps above, make sure to replace the existing font-family in relevant CSS.

### Additional resources

- More on [importing assets into files](/docs/importing-assets-into-files/)

## Using Emotion

[Emotion](https://emotion.sh) is a powerful CSS-in-JS library that supports both inline CSS styles and styled components. You can use each styling feature individually or together in the same file.

### Prerequisites

- A [Gatsby site](/docs/quick-start)

### Directions

1. Install the [Gatsby Emotion plugin](/packages/gatsby-plugin-emotion/) and Emotion packages.

```shell
npm install gatsby-plugin-emotion @emotion/core @emotion/styled
```

2. Add the `gatsby-plugin-emotion` plugin to your `gatsby-config.js` file:

```javascript:title=gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  plugins: [`gatsby-plugin-emotion`],
}
```

3. If you don't already have one, create a page in your Gatsby site at `src/pages/emotion-sample.js`.

Import Emotion's `css` core package. You can then use the `css` prop to add [Emotion object styles](https://emotion.sh/docs/object-styles) to any element inside a component:

```jsx:title=src/pages/emotion-sample.js
import React from "react"
import { css } from "@emotion/core"

export default function EmotionSample() {
  return (
    <div>
      <p
        css={{
          background: "pink",
          color: "blue",
        }}
      >
        This page is using Emotion.
      </p>
    </div>
  )
}
```

4. To use Emotion's [styled components](https://emotion.sh/docs/styled), import the package and define them using the `styled` function.

```jsx:title=src/pages/emotion-sample.js
import React from "react"
import styled from "@emotion/styled"

const Content = styled.div`
  text-align: center;
  margin-top: 10px;
  p {
    font-weight: bold;
  }
`

export default function EmotionSample() {
  return (
    <Content>
      <p>This page is using Emotion.</p>
    </Content>
  )
}
```

### Additional resources

- [Using Emotion in Gatsby](/docs/emotion/)
- [Emotion website](https://emotion.sh)
- [Getting started with Emotion and Gatsby](https://egghead.io/lessons/gatsby-getting-started-with-emotion-and-gatsby)

## Using Google Fonts

Hosting your own [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/) locally within a project means they won't have to be fetched over the network when your site loads, increasing your site's speed index by up to ~300 milliseconds on desktop and 1+ seconds on 3G. It's also recommended to limit custom font usage to only the essential for performance.

### Prerequisites

- A [Gatsby site](/docs/quick-start)
- The [Gatsby CLI](/docs/gatsby-cli/) installed
- Choosing a font package from [the typefaces project](https://github.com/KyleAMathews/typefaces)

### Directions

1. Run `npm install typeface-your-chosen-font`, replacing `your-chosen-font` with the name of the font you want to install from [the typefaces project](https://github.com/KyleAMathews/typefaces).

An example to load the popular 'Source Sans Pro' font would be: `npm install typeface-source-sans-pro`.

2. Add `import "typeface-your-chosen-font"` to a layout template, page component, or `gatsby-browser.js`.

```jsx:title=src/components/layout.js
import "typeface-your-chosen-font"
```

3. Once it's imported, you can reference the font name in a CSS stylesheet, CSS Module, or CSS-in-JS.

```css:title=src/components/layout.css
body {
  font-family: "Your Chosen Font";
}
```

_NOTE: So for the above example, the relevant CSS declaration would be `font-family: 'Source Sans Pro';`_

### Additional resources

- [Typography.js](/docs/typography-js/) - Another option for using Google fonts on a Gatsby site
- [The Typefaces Project Docs](https://github.com/KyleAMathews/typefaces/blob/master/README.md)
- [Live example on Kyle Mathews' blog](https://www.bricolage.io/typefaces-easiest-way-to-self-host-fonts/)

## Using Font Awesome

Using [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/) gives you access to thousands of icons for use on your site. Since Gatsby sites are React sites, it's recommended to use the [react-fontawesome](https://github.com/FortAwesome/react-fontawesome) SVG library.

### Prerequisites

- The [Gatsby CLI](/docs/gatsby-cli/) installed
- A [Gatsby site](/docs/quick-start)

### Directions

1. Install the `react-fontawesome` dependencies.

```shell
npm install @fortawesome/fontawesome-svg-core  @fortawesome/free-brands-svg-icons @fortawesome/react-fontawesome
```

> Note that there are multiple icon libraries within `react-fontawesome`. You may also be interested in `free-regular-svg-icons` and `free-solid-svg-icons` which you would install the same way.

2. Import the `FontAwesomeIcon` component and the icon you want to use. Then use the icon as a component directly in your JSX files:

```jsx:title=index.js
import { FontAwesomeIcon } from "@fortawesome/react-fontawesome"
import { faReact } from "@fortawesome/free-brands-svg-icons"

const IndexPage = () => (
  <Layout>
    <FontAwesomeIcon icon={faReact} /> //highlight-line
  </Layout>
)

export default IndexPage
```

> This example imports a single, specific icon and uses it for improved performance. As an alternative, you can [import the icons and build a library](https://github.com/FortAwesome/react-fontawesome#build-a-library-to-reference-icons-throughout-your-app-more-conveniently).

### Additional resources

- [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/)
- [react-fontawesome](https://github.com/FortAwesome/react-fontawesome)

Commit message:

chore(docs): replace typefaces with fontsource (#27313)
* chore(docs): replace typefaces with fontsource

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Megan Sullivan <meganesulli@gmail.com>

* docs: apply requested changes

* Update docs/docs/using-web-fonts.md

* Update docs/docs/recipes/styling-css.md

* docs: make appropriate changes for context

* docs: update second page with same changes

Co-authored-by: Lotus <DecliningLotus@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Megan Sullivan <meganesulli@gmail.com>

docs/docs/recipes/styling-css.md, after:

---
title: "Recipes: Styling with CSS"
tableOfContentsDepth: 1
---

There are so many ways to add styles to your website; Gatsby supports almost every possible option, through official and community plugins.

## Using global CSS files without a Layout component

### Prerequisites

- An existing [Gatsby site](/docs/quick-start/) with an index page component
- A `gatsby-browser.js` file

### Directions

1. Create a global CSS file as `src/styles/global.css` and paste the following into the file:

```css:title=src/styles/global.css
html {
  background-color: lavenderblush;
}

p {
  color: maroon;
}
```

2. Import the global CSS file in the `gatsby-browser.js` file such as the following:

```javascript:title=gatsby-browser.js
import "./src/styles/global.css"
```

> **Note:** You can also make use of `require('./src/styles/global.css')` to import the global CSS file in your `gatsby-browser.js` file.

3. Run `gatsby-develop` to observe the global styling being applied across your site.

> **Note:** This approach is not the best fit if you are using CSS-in-JS for styling your site, in which case a layout page with all the shared components should be used. This is covered in the next recipe.

### Additional resources

- More on [adding global styles without a layout component](/docs/global-css/#adding-global-styles-without-a-layout-component)

## Using global styles in a layout component

### Prerequisites

- A [Gatsby site](/docs/quick-start/) with an index page component

### Directions

You can add global styles to a [shared layout component](/tutorial/part-three/#your-first-layout-component). This component is used for things that are common throughout the site, like a header or footer.

1. If you don't already have one, create a new directory in your site at `/src/components`.

2. Inside the components directory, create two files: `layout.css` and `layout.js`.

3. Add the following to `layout.css`:

```css:title=/src/components/layout.css
body {
  background: red;
}
```

4. Edit `layout.js` to import the CSS file and output layout markup:

```jsx:title=/src/components/layout.js
import React from "react"
import "./layout.css"

export default function Layout({ children }) {
  return <div>{children}</div>
}
```

5. Now edit your site's homepage at `/src/pages/index.js` and use the new layout component:

```jsx:title=/src/pages/index.js
import React from "react"
import Layout from "../components/layout"

export default function Home() {
  return <Layout>Hello world!</Layout>
}
```

### Additional resources

- [Standard Styling with Global CSS Files](/docs/global-css/)
- [More about layout components](/tutorial/part-three)

## Using Styled Components

### Prerequisites

- A [Gatsby site](/docs/quick-start/) with an index page component
- [gatsby-plugin-styled-components, styled-components, and babel-plugin-styled-components](/packages/gatsby-plugin-styled-components/) installed in `package.json`

### Directions

1. Inside your `gatsby-config.js` file add `gatsby-plugin-styled-components`

```javascript:title=gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  plugins: [`gatsby-plugin-styled-components`],
}
```

2. Open the index page component (`src/pages/index.js`) and import the `styled-components` package

3. Style components by creating style blocks for each element type

4. Apply to the page by including styled components in the JSX

```jsx:title=src/pages/index.js
import React from "react"
import styled from "styled-components" //highlight-line

const Container = styled.div`
  margin: 3rem auto;
  max-width: 600px;
  display: flex;
  flex-direction: column;
  align-items: center;
  justify-content: center;
`

const Avatar = styled.img`
  flex: 0 0 96px;
  width: 96px;
  height: 96px;
  margin: 0;
`

const Username = styled.h2`
  margin: 0 0 12px 0;
  padding: 0;
`

const User = props => (
  <>
    <Avatar src={props.avatar} alt={props.username} />
    <Username>{props.username}</Username>
  </>
)

export default function UsersList() {
  return (
    <Container>
      <h1>About Styled Components</h1>
      <p>Styled Components is cool</p>
      <User
        username="Jane Doe"
        avatar="https://s3.amazonaws.com/uifaces/faces/twitter/adellecharles/128.jpg"
      />
      <User
        username="Bob Smith"
        avatar="https://s3.amazonaws.com/uifaces/faces/twitter/vladarbatov/128.jpg"
      />
    </Container>
  )
}
```

4. Run `gatsby develop` to see the changes

### Additional resources

- [More on Using Styled Components](/docs/styled-components/)
- [Egghead lesson](https://egghead.io/lessons/gatsby-style-gatsby-sites-with-styled-components)

## Using CSS Modules

### Prerequisites

- An existing [Gatsby site](/docs/quick-start/) with an index page component

### Directions

1. Create a CSS module as `src/pages/index.module.css` and paste the following into the module:

```css:title=src/pages/index.module.css
.feature {
  margin: 2rem auto;
  max-width: 500px;
}
```

2. Import the CSS module as a JSX object `style` in the `index.js` file by modifying the page so it looks like the following:

```jsx:title=src/pages/index.js
import React from "react"

// highlight-start
import style from "./index.module.css"

export default function Home() {
  return (
    <section className={style.feature}>
      <h1>Using CSS Modules</h1>
    </section>
  )
}
// highlight-end
```

3. Run `gatsby develop` to see the changes.

**Note:**
Notice that the file extension is `.module.css` instead of `.css`, which tells Gatsby that this is a CSS module.

### Additional resources

- More on [Using CSS Modules](/tutorial/part-two/#css-modules)
- [Live example on Using CSS modules](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/master/examples/using-css-modules)

## Using Sass/SCSS

Sass is an extension of CSS that gives you more advanced features like nested rules, variables, mixins, and more.

Sass has 2 syntaxes. The most commonly used syntax is "SCSS", and is a superset of CSS. That means all valid CSS syntax, is valid SCSS syntax. SCSS files use the extension `.scss`

Sass will compile `.scss` and `.sass` files to `.css` files for you, so you can write your stylesheets with more advanced features.

### Prerequisites

- A [Gatsby site](/docs/quick-start/).

### Directions

1. Install the Gatsby plugin [gatsby-plugin-sass](/plugins/gatsby-plugin-sass/) and `node-sass`.

`npm install node-sass gatsby-plugin-sass`

2. Include the plugin in your `gatsby-config.js` file.

```javascript:title=gatsby-config.js
plugins: [`gatsby-plugin-sass`],
```

3. Write your stylesheets as `.sass` or `.scss` files and import them. If you don't know how to import styles, take a look at [Styling with CSS](/docs/recipes/#2-styling-with-css)

```css:title=styles.scss
$font-stack: Helvetica, sans-serif;
$primary-color: #333;

body {
  font: 100% $font-stack;
  color: $primary-color;
}
```

```css:title=styles.sass
$font-stack:    Helvetica, sans-serif
$primary-color: #333

body
  font: 100% $font-stack
  color: $primary-color
```

```javascript
import "./styles.scss"
import "./styles.sass"
```

_Note: You can use Sass/SCSS files as modules too, like mentioned in the previous recipe about CSS modules, with the difference that instead of `.css` the extensions have to be `.scss` or `.sass`_

### Additional resources

- [Difference between `.sass` and `.scss`](https://responsivedesign.is/articles/difference-between-sass-and-scss/)
- [Sass guide from the official Sass website](https://sass-lang.com/guide)
- [A more complete installation tutorial on Sass with some more explanations and more resources](/docs/sass/)

## Adding a Local Font

### Prerequisites

- A [Gatsby site](/docs/quick-start/)
- A font file: `.woff2`, `.ttf`, etc.

### Directions

1. Copy a font file into your Gatsby project, such as `src/fonts/fontname.woff2`.

2. Import the font asset into a CSS file to bundle it into your Gatsby site:

```css:title=src/css/typography.css
@font-face {
  font-family: "Font Name";
  src: url("../fonts/fontname.woff2");
}
```

**Note:** Make sure the font name is referenced from the relevant CSS, e.g.:

```css:title=src/components/layout.css
body {
  font-family: "Font Name", sans-serif;
}
```

By targeting the HTML `body` element, your font will apply to most text on the page. Additional CSS can target other elements, such as `button` or `textarea`.

If fonts are not updating following steps above, make sure to replace the existing font-family in relevant CSS.

### Additional resources

- More on [importing assets into files](/docs/importing-assets-into-files/)

## Using Emotion

[Emotion](https://emotion.sh) is a powerful CSS-in-JS library that supports both inline CSS styles and styled components. You can use each styling feature individually or together in the same file.

### Prerequisites

- A [Gatsby site](/docs/quick-start)

### Directions

1. Install the [Gatsby Emotion plugin](/packages/gatsby-plugin-emotion/) and Emotion packages.

```shell
npm install gatsby-plugin-emotion @emotion/core @emotion/styled
```

2. Add the `gatsby-plugin-emotion` plugin to your `gatsby-config.js` file:

```javascript:title=gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  plugins: [`gatsby-plugin-emotion`],
}
```

3. If you don't already have one, create a page in your Gatsby site at `src/pages/emotion-sample.js`.

Import Emotion's `css` core package. You can then use the `css` prop to add [Emotion object styles](https://emotion.sh/docs/object-styles) to any element inside a component:

```jsx:title=src/pages/emotion-sample.js
import React from "react"
import { css } from "@emotion/core"

export default function EmotionSample() {
  return (
    <div>
      <p
        css={{
          background: "pink",
          color: "blue",
        }}
      >
        This page is using Emotion.
      </p>
    </div>
  )
}
```

4. To use Emotion's [styled components](https://emotion.sh/docs/styled), import the package and define them using the `styled` function.

```jsx:title=src/pages/emotion-sample.js
import React from "react"
import styled from "@emotion/styled"

const Content = styled.div`
  text-align: center;
  margin-top: 10px;
  p {
    font-weight: bold;
  }
`

export default function EmotionSample() {
  return (
    <Content>
      <p>This page is using Emotion.</p>
    </Content>
  )
}
```

### Additional resources

- [Using Emotion in Gatsby](/docs/emotion/)
- [Emotion website](https://emotion.sh)
- [Getting started with Emotion and Gatsby](https://egghead.io/lessons/gatsby-getting-started-with-emotion-and-gatsby)

## Using Google Fonts

Hosting your own [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/) locally within a project means they won't have to be fetched over the network when your site loads, increasing your site's speed index by up to ~300 milliseconds on desktop and 1+ seconds on 3G. It's also recommended to limit custom font usage to only the essential for performance.

### Prerequisites

- A [Gatsby site](/docs/quick-start)
- The [Gatsby CLI](/docs/gatsby-cli/) installed
- A chosen font package from [Fontsource](https://github.com/fontsource/fontsource)

### Directions

This example shows how to set up the [Open Sans](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Open+Sans) font. If you have a different Google Font you want to use, you can find the corresponding package in [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/search?q=fontsource) or the [packages directory in the Fontsource repository](https://github.com/fontsource/fontsource/tree/master/packages).

1. Run `npm install fontsource-open-sans` to download the necessary package files.

2. Then within your app entry file or site component, import the font package. It is recommended you import it via the layout template (`layout.js`). However, importing via page component (`index.js`), or `gatsby-browser.js` are viable alternatives.

```jsx:title=src/components/layout.js
import "fontsource-open-sans" // Defaults to weight 400 with all styles included.
```

If you wish to select a particular weight or style, you may specify it by changing the import path.

```jsx:title=src/components/layout.js
import "fontsource-open-sans/500.css" // Weight 500 with all styles included.
import "fontsource-open-sans/900-normal.css" // Select either normal or italic.
```

**Note**: The range of supported weights and styles a font may support is shown in each package's README file.

3. Once it's imported, you can reference the font name in a CSS stylesheet, CSS Module, or CSS-in-JS.

```css:title=src/components/layout.css
body {
  font-family: "Open Sans";
}
```

### Additional resources

- [Fontsource repo on GitHub](https://github.com/fontsource/fontsource)
- [Typography.js](/docs/typography-js/) - Another option for using Google fonts on a Gatsby site

## Using Font Awesome

Using [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/) gives you access to thousands of icons for use on your site. Since Gatsby sites are React sites, it's recommended to use the [react-fontawesome](https://github.com/FortAwesome/react-fontawesome) SVG library.

### Prerequisites

- The [Gatsby CLI](/docs/gatsby-cli/) installed
- A [Gatsby site](/docs/quick-start)

### Directions

1. Install the `react-fontawesome` dependencies.

```shell
npm install @fortawesome/fontawesome-svg-core  @fortawesome/free-brands-svg-icons @fortawesome/react-fontawesome
```

> Note that there are multiple icon libraries within `react-fontawesome`. You may also be interested in `free-regular-svg-icons` and `free-solid-svg-icons` which you would install the same way.

2. Import the `FontAwesomeIcon` component and the icon you want to use. Then use the icon as a component directly in your JSX files:

```jsx:title=index.js
import { FontAwesomeIcon } from "@fortawesome/react-fontawesome"
import { faReact } from "@fortawesome/free-brands-svg-icons"

const IndexPage = () => (
  <Layout>
    <FontAwesomeIcon icon={faReact} /> //highlight-line
  </Layout>
)

export default IndexPage
```

> This example imports a single, specific icon and uses it for improved performance. As an alternative, you can [import the icons and build a library](https://github.com/FortAwesome/react-fontawesome#build-a-library-to-reference-icons-throughout-your-app-more-conveniently).

### Additional resources

- [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/)
- [react-fontawesome](https://github.com/FortAwesome/react-fontawesome)
