packages/gatsby-remark-images-contentful/README.md, before:

# gatsby-remark-images-contentful

Processes images in markdown so they can be used in the production build using Contentful's [Image API](https://www.contentful.com/developers/docs/references/images-api)

In the processing, it makes images responsive by:

- Adding an elastic container to hold the size of the image while it loads to
  avoid layout jumps.
- Generating multiple versions of images at different widths and sets the
  `srcset` and `sizes` of the `img` element so regardless of the width of the
  device, the correct image is downloaded.
- Using the "blur up" technique popularized by [Medium][1] and [Facebook][2]
  where a small 20px wide version of the image is shown as a placeholder until
  the actual image is downloaded.

## Install

`npm install --save gatsby-remark-images-contentful`

## How to use

```javascript
// In your gatsby-config.js
plugins: [
  `gatsby-plugin-sharp`,
  {
    resolve: `gatsby-transformer-remark`,
    options: {
      plugins: [
        {
          resolve: `gatsby-remark-images-contentful`,
          options: {
            // It's important to specify the maxWidth (in pixels) of
            // the content container as this plugin uses this as the
            // base for generating different widths of each image.
            maxWidth: 590,
          },
        },
      ],
    },
  },
]
```

## Options

| Name                   | Default | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| ---------------------- | ------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `maxWidth`             | `650`   | The `maxWidth` in pixels of the `div` where the markdown will be displayed. This value is used when deciding what the width of the various responsive thumbnails should be.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| `linkImagesToOriginal` | `true`  | Add a link to each image to the original image. Sometimes people want to see a full-sized version of an image e.g. to see extra detail on a part of the image and this is a convenient and common pattern for enabling this. Set this option to false to disable this behavior.                                                                                                                                                          |
| `showCaptions`         | `false` | Add a caption to each image with the contents of the title attribute, when this is not empty. Set this option to true to enable this behavior.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| `sizeByPixelDensity`   | `false` | Analyze images' pixel density to make decisions about target image size. This is what GitHub is doing when embedding images in tickets. This is a useful setting for documentation pages with a lot of screenshots. It can have unintended side effects on high-pixel density artworks.<br /><br />Example: A screenshot made on a retina screen with a resolution of 144 (e.g. Macbook) and a width of 100px, will be rendered at 50px. |
| `wrapperStyle`         |         | Add custom styles to the div wrapping the responsive images. Use regular CSS syntax, e.g. `margin-bottom:10px; background: red;`                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `backgroundColor`      | `white` | Set the background color of the image to match the background of your design                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `withWebp`             | `false` | Additionally generate WebP versions alongside your chosen file format. They are added as a srcset with the appropriate mimetype and will be loaded in browsers that support the format.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |

## Troubleshooting

### Incompatible library version: sharp.node requires version X or later, but Z provides version Y

This means that there are multiple incompatible versions of the `sharp` package installed in `node_modules`. The complete error typically looks like this:

```
Something went wrong installing the "sharp" module

dlopen(/Users/misiek/dev/gatsby-starter-blog/node_modules/sharp/build/Release/sharp.node, 1): Library not loaded: @rpath/libglib-2.0.dylib
  Referenced from: /Users/misiek/dev/gatsby-starter-blog/node_modules/sharp/build/Release/sharp.node
  Reason: Incompatible library version: sharp.node requires version 6001.0.0 or later, but libglib-2.0.dylib provides version 5801.0.0
```

To fix this, you'll need to update all Gatsby plugins in the current project that depend on the `sharp` package. Here's a list of official plugins that you might need to update in case your projects uses them:

- `gatsby-plugin-sharp`
- `gatsby-plugin-manifest`
- `gatsby-remark-images-contentful`
- `gatsby-source-contentful`
- `gatsby-transformer-sharp`
- `gatsby-transformer-sqip`

To update these packages, run:

```shell
npm install gatsby-plugin-sharp gatsby-plugin-manifest gatsby-remark-images-contentful gatsby-source-contentful gatsby-transformer-sharp gatsby-transformer-sqip
```

If updating these doesn't fix the issue, your project probably uses other plugins from the community that depend on a different version of `sharp`. Try running `npm list sharp` or `yarn why sharp` to see all packages in the current project that use `sharp` and try updating them as well.

[1]: https://jmperezperez.com/medium-image-progressive-loading-placeholder/
[2]: https://code.facebook.com/posts/991252547593574/the-technology-behind-preview-photos/

Commit message:

feat(gatsby-remark-images-contentful): add native lazy loading support to contentful images (#18883)

packages/gatsby-remark-images-contentful/README.md, after:

# gatsby-remark-images-contentful

Processes images in markdown so they can be used in the production build using Contentful's [Image API](https://www.contentful.com/developers/docs/references/images-api)

In the processing, it makes images responsive by:

- Adding an elastic container to hold the size of the image while it loads to
  avoid layout jumps.
- Generating multiple versions of images at different widths and sets the
  `srcset` and `sizes` of the `img` element so regardless of the width of the
  device, the correct image is downloaded.
- Using the "blur up" technique popularized by [Medium][1] and [Facebook][2]
  where a small 20px wide version of the image is shown as a placeholder until
  the actual image is downloaded.

## Install

`npm install --save gatsby-remark-images-contentful`

## How to use

```javascript
// In your gatsby-config.js
plugins: [
  `gatsby-plugin-sharp`,
  {
    resolve: `gatsby-transformer-remark`,
    options: {
      plugins: [
        {
          resolve: `gatsby-remark-images-contentful`,
          options: {
            // It's important to specify the maxWidth (in pixels) of
            // the content container as this plugin uses this as the
            // base for generating different widths of each image.
            maxWidth: 590,
          },
        },
      ],
    },
  },
]
```

## Options

| Name                   | Default | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| ---------------------- | ------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `maxWidth`             | `650`   | The `maxWidth` in pixels of the `div` where the markdown will be displayed. This value is used when deciding what the width of the various responsive thumbnails should be.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| `linkImagesToOriginal` | `true`  | Add a link to each image to the original image. Sometimes people want to see a full-sized version of an image e.g. to see extra detail on a part of the image and this is a convenient and common pattern for enabling this. Set this option to false to disable this behavior.                                                                                                                                                          |
| `showCaptions`         | `false` | Add a caption to each image with the contents of the title attribute, when this is not empty. Set this option to true to enable this behavior.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| `sizeByPixelDensity`   | `false` | Analyze images' pixel density to make decisions about target image size. This is what GitHub is doing when embedding images in tickets. This is a useful setting for documentation pages with a lot of screenshots. It can have unintended side effects on high-pixel density artworks.<br /><br />Example: A screenshot made on a retina screen with a resolution of 144 (e.g. Macbook) and a width of 100px, will be rendered at 50px. |
| `wrapperStyle`         |         | Add custom styles to the div wrapping the responsive images. Use regular CSS syntax, e.g. `margin-bottom:10px; background: red;`                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `backgroundColor`      | `white` | Set the background color of the image to match the background of your design                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `withWebp`             | `false` | Additionally generate WebP versions alongside your chosen file format. They are added as a srcset with the appropriate mimetype and will be loaded in browsers that support the format.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| `loading`              | `lazy`  | Set the browser's native lazy loading attribute. One of `lazy`, `eager` or `auto`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |

## Troubleshooting

### Incompatible library version: sharp.node requires version X or later, but Z provides version Y

This means that there are multiple incompatible versions of the `sharp` package installed in `node_modules`. The complete error typically looks like this:

```
Something went wrong installing the "sharp" module

dlopen(/Users/misiek/dev/gatsby-starter-blog/node_modules/sharp/build/Release/sharp.node, 1): Library not loaded: @rpath/libglib-2.0.dylib
  Referenced from: /Users/misiek/dev/gatsby-starter-blog/node_modules/sharp/build/Release/sharp.node
  Reason: Incompatible library version: sharp.node requires version 6001.0.0 or later, but libglib-2.0.dylib provides version 5801.0.0
```

To fix this, you'll need to update all Gatsby plugins in the current project that depend on the `sharp` package. Here's a list of official plugins that you might need to update in case your projects uses them:

- `gatsby-plugin-sharp`
- `gatsby-plugin-manifest`
- `gatsby-remark-images-contentful`
- `gatsby-source-contentful`
- `gatsby-transformer-sharp`
- `gatsby-transformer-sqip`

To update these packages, run:

```shell
npm install gatsby-plugin-sharp gatsby-plugin-manifest gatsby-remark-images-contentful gatsby-source-contentful gatsby-transformer-sharp gatsby-transformer-sqip
```

If updating these doesn't fix the issue, your project probably uses other plugins from the community that depend on a different version of `sharp`. Try running `npm list sharp` or `yarn why sharp` to see all packages in the current project that use `sharp` and try updating them as well.

[1]: https://jmperezperez.com/medium-image-progressive-loading-placeholder/
[2]: https://code.facebook.com/posts/991252547593574/the-technology-behind-preview-photos/
