docs/tutorial/index.md, before:

---
title: Gatsby.js Tutorial
---

We’re so happy you decided to try using Gatsby. This tutorial has five parts that'll walk you from getting started developing and building Gatsby sites to deploying a finished and polished high performance static PWA.

Note: If you prefer a quick start rather than step-by-step tutorial, see the [getting started page](/docs/).

This tutorial is for _everyone_! You do not need to be a programmer or React.js expert. We'll walk you through things.

0. [Programming basics](/tutorial/part-zero/): If you are new to programming, go here for an introduction to some basics like terminal, code editors, and browser consoles.
1. [Introduction to Gatsby basics](/tutorial/part-one/) - Starting new projects, developing, and deploying sites.
1. [Introduction to using CSS in Gatsby](/tutorial/part-two/): Explore libraries like Typography.js and CSS Modules.
1. [Building nested layouts in Gatsby](/tutorial/part-three/). Layouts are sections of your site that are reused across multiple pages like headers and footers.
1. [Learn how to query data with GraphQL](/tutorial/part-four/). Explore source & transformer plugins. Get introduced to programmatic pages and how to write GraphQL queries. In this part of the tutorial we'll build a bare-bones markdown blog.

Commit message:

Split part 4 into three parts (#4393)
* Split part 4 into three parts

Also considering 3 new related PR's:
1. using GraphiQL iframes instead of screenshots
2. Using just one starter for the whole set of tutorials
3. Once no. 2 is finished, renaming the tutorials in more human terms, like "Starting your Gatsby blog", etc.

Co-Authored-By: Amberley <amberleyromo@users.noreply.github.com>

* Updating sidebar and tutorial hompage

docs/tutorial/index.md, after:

---
title: Gatsby.js Tutorial
---

We’re so happy you decided to try using Gatsby. This tutorial has an initial introduction plus seven more parts that'll walk you from getting started developing and building Gatsby sites to deploying a finished and polished high performance static PWA.

Note: If you prefer a quick start rather than step-by-step tutorial, see the [getting started page](/docs/).

This tutorial is for _everyone_! You do not need to be a programmer or React.js expert. We'll walk you through things.

0. [Programming basics](/tutorial/part-zero/): If you are new to programming, go here for an introduction to some basics like terminal, code editors, and browser consoles.
1. [Introduction to Gatsby basics](/tutorial/part-one/): Starting new projects, developing, and deploying sites.
2. [Introduction to using CSS in Gatsby](/tutorial/part-two/): Explore libraries like Typography.js and CSS Modules.
3. [Building nested layouts in Gatsby](/tutorial/part-three/): Layouts are sections of your site that are reused across multiple pages like headers and footers.

## Advanced tutorials

In these advanced tutorials, you'll learn how to pull data from almost anywhere into your Gatsby site with GraphQL. 

4. [Querying for data in a blog](/tutorial/part-four/): Create a blog and use a GraphQL query to pull your site title into the blog header. 
5. [Source plugins and rendering queried data](/tutorial/part-five/): Use a source plugin to pull Markdown blogposts into your site and create an index page with a list of blogposts.
6. [Transformer plugins](/tutorial/part-six/): Use a transformer plugin to transform your Markdown blogposts into a form the blog can render.
7. [Programmatically create pages from data](/tutorial/part-seven/): Learn how to programmatically create a set of pages for your blogposts.
